1 Korea as an East Asian Society



Relatively speaking, traditional Korea was a stable society with four major social classes. Yangban (scholars and scholarly official), Chungin (local professionals such as medical herbalists, foreign language specialists), Yangmin (farmers, craftsmen, fishermen and merchants) and Chonmin (entertainers--dancers, singers, or prostitutes). The Yi Dynasty or (Chosŏn dynasty) is the last and longest imperial dynasty (1392–1910) in Korea. It was founded by General Yi (or Lee) Sŏng-gye. It was named the Yi Dynasty because the House of Lee (or Yi) was its ruling family. The kingdom was named Chosŏn because this was the name of the Korean peninsula state in ancient times. The capital city was in Hanyang (present-day Seoul). General Yi established a close relationship with the neighboring Ming dynasty (1368–1644) of China, which considered Korea a tribute state. Chinese cultural influence in Korea was deep and visible in Korea.



2 Geographical Location and Chinese Influence



Neighboring countries of Korea include China, Japan and Russia. Chinese cultural influences were stronger than that of Japan and Russia in Korea. The Yi or Chosŏn government was modeled after traditional Chinese political system. Confucianism was adopted as the ideology of Korean society. Government officials were scholars selected through the civil service examination system like China. Chinese writing system was used in Korea for centuries. To maintain a good relationship, Korean government paid tribute to China on yearly basis.



3 The Treaty of Kanghwa in 1876



Korea maintained a neutral and independent policy until the 1880s. In 1866, Korean army drove off seven French warships, five American ships in 1871, and one Japanese ship in 1875. Meanwhile domestic problem such as the Tonghak Rebellion (meaning Eastern Learning) troubled Korea from 1860 to 1890. It was a religious movement reflecting discontent of the poor farmers and eventually led to a massive peasant uprising. Then Japan forced Korea to sign the Treaty of Kanghwa in 1876, which was the first unequal treaty between Korea and another country. The treaty significantly weakened Chinese influence in Korea. Based on the Treaty of Kanghwa, ports open to Japanese trade included Pusan in the south, Inchon on the west coast and Wonsan on the east coast. Japanese citizens in Korea were granted extraterritorial privileges and controlled the import and export trade. Japan also had navigation right in Korea. The Kanghwa Treaty illustrates how Japan became a major imperialist country and dominated Korea in the same way that the West dominated Asia.



4 Western Colonialism in Korea



Western powers were also competing with each other to dominate Korea. From 1876 to 1905 many cities in Korea became Treaty Ports for international trade including Pusan, Wonsan, Inchon, Yanghwajin, Mokpo, Phongyang, Kunsan, Masan, or Songjin. Many Western countries including the United States signed unequal treaties with Korea. In 1882, the US signed a treaty with Korea to gain extra-territorial privileges for Americans, and the right to convert Koreans into Christians. The U.S. built electric facilities in the Korean royal palace, Korea’s first gas plant, and street cars. Russia secured the mining rights in Kyongwon, Chongsong, and Hamgyong and right to develop timber industry in the Yalu River area. France built its Seoul-Uiju railway. Germany gained the gold mining right in Kangwon. Britain also gained the gold mining right in South Pyongan. Japan built the Seoul-Inchon railway and Seoul-Pusan railway, and the gold mining right in North Chungchong. Self-sufficient economy in Korea was interrupted and even destroyed. Foreign merchants purchased crops such as rice or beans and sold them in Japan for greater profit and imported cotton products, kerosene and matches which Korean peasants would have to buy with the cash they received through selling rice and bean crops.



5 Japanese Occupation



Japan became a dominant power in Korea after the Japanese victory in the Sino-Japanese War of 1894–95 and the Russian-Japanese War of 1904–05. As a powerful imperialist country Japan openly demonstrated its ambition to control, invade and occupy Korea, China and Southeast Asia. In 1895, Japanese agents assassinated Queen Min as they suspected her of encouraging resistance against Japan. Her husband, King Kojong, remained on the throne until 1907, when he was forced to cede it to his son as Japan wished. Japanese Dai Ichi Bank established numerous branch offices throughout Korea since 1878. By 1902, it issued 19 million Japanese yen in Korea and became the dominant bank there. Japanese merchants purchased land properties in many cities. In 1907, Pyongyang became a “Japanese city” with 7,000 Japanese residents. In 1905, Japan imposed the Protectorate Treaty on Korea, which means Japan became the number one colonial master in Korea. In 1910 Japan formally annexed Korea and officially terminated the Yi Dynasty. Since then Japanese become the official language in Korea. Korean schools were teaching Japanese culture and history. Japan occupied Korea until 1945.



6 Horace Allen and American Missionaries in Korea



Beginning from the late 19th century, many American missionaries went to Korea. Horace Allen was the most famous one. He was a good friend and close advisor of the Korean royal family and later was appointed as the foreign secretary of Korean legation in Washington DC between 1888-1889, and then the secretary of the American legation in Seoul in 1890-6; American minister in Korea in 1897-1905. Through missionaries, American influence in Korea was deep and wide functioning as a counter influence against Japanese domination. Missionaries opened Bible schools and medical services. They used Hangul (han’gŭl) instead of Chinese writing system to translate the Bible, which made it a lot easy to read. It spread fast among Christian Koreans. Using Korean phonetic alphabet, Hangul was invented in the 15th century but the Yangban class (scholar officials) refused to use it as a Korean writing system. American missionaries quickly discovered its potential and successfully used it to translate the Bible. The use of Hangul in Korea and the spread of the Bible story was more than a linguistic or religious issue. It was a period of time that Koreans felt national crisis as Japan deepened its invasion of Korea.



7 Church, the Bible Women and Social Change in Korea



Strong Christian influence reflects the historical context of Japanese occupation. There were many Sunday schools and Korean language classes for children and English classes for adults to reduce illiteracy. When Japanese became the official language, Korean language books and periodicals were imported through church organizations. Christian churches also attracted Korean women. Many of them became the “Bible Women.” They actively spread Christianity in and outside of their home villages, went to Sunday schools, and converted other women into Christians. Missionary medical schools also trained Korean women professionals. Christian churches also played a role in Korean resistance against Japanese occupation. In 1919, the former King passed away. Many Koreans used this occasion to launch a strong protest against Japanese occupation. As many as one million people participated in this Samil (March First) Movement (1919), which was about 5% of the total Korean population. Many participants were Korean Christians. The protest was intense and about 200 Japanese died in the conflicts. Japanese suppression was brutal. About 20,000 Koreans were arrested including 500 women. Some 10,000 people including 100 women were prosecuted and tortured to death. Many Korean women were stripped and raped.


Photo of Berendo Street Baptist Church - Los Angeles, CA, United States

8 A Short Migration



Missionaries promoted Korean migration to America. The first group of Korean immigrants came from one Christian church. Like Chinese or Japanese, most Korean immigrants were young, able-bodied single males. From 1903-05, about 7,800 Koreans went to Hawaii, fewer than 10% were women; and fewer than 5% were children; and many of them were in their 20s. They came from the port cities of Inchon, Mokpo, Pusan, as well as from Seoul and Pyongyang -- the two largest cities in Korea. In 1905, Japanese government was concerned that Korean immigrants were used as competing laborers against Japanese laborers in Hawaii. So it stopped Korean migration. Small in number, Korean immigrant communities were active in resistance movements against Japanese occupation. They were well organized. Their Tong-hoe (village councils) grouped themselves into Sinmin- hoe (New People Society) in 1907, and then was renamed as the United Korean Society. In 1909, it merged with the Mutual Assistance Association in San Francisco and then became the Korean National Association in the United States.  



9 Nationalism and Overseas Koreans



Overseas Koreans were active in nationalist movements. In 1908, two radical Korean immigrants assassinated Durham Stevens, a self-appointed American advisor for Japanese authority in Korea. He often lobbied for Japanese interest in America through public speeches. Korean immigrants asked him to stop his propaganda but he refused. So angered by his propaganda, Chang Yi-hwan and another Korean immigrant shot him to death. Though Korean communities raised fund to hire good attorneys on his behalf, the two Koreans were sentenced to life prison term and eventually Chang passed away in prison. He was honored as a national hero in Korea.



In 1909, a Korean immigrant Yi Chae-myung went to Harbin, a city in Northeast China and assassinated Ito Hirobumi, Japanese Resident-General there. In 1932, another Korean immigrant attempted to kill Shigenitsu Mamoru, a Japanese diplomat in Shanghai, with a bomb. The diplomat lost a leg during the bombing.



10 Korean Picture Brides



Keenly aware of their strong patriotism and most of overseas Koreans were single males, Japanese authority sent Korean women to America as picture brides. While Japanese picture brides arrived in America in the 1910s, about 951 Korean picture brides went to Hawaii and about 115 picture brides to the mainland U.S. through Shanghai, China. Japanese authority hoped that family life may calm down overseas Koreans’ resistance movements. 



11 Race and Korean Identity



In 1913, a farmer in Hemet, Riverside County, California hired 15 Korean farm laborers to work on his farms from San Francisco. When Korean laborers arrived in Riverside, several hundred of white laborers surrounded the railroad station, did not let Koreans step out of the train and sent them back to San Francisco. After a local Japanese immigrant reported this incident to the Japanese diplomat in San Francisco, Japanese government protested against the US government. But Korean American communities quickly sent a telegram to Washington DC stating that they were not Japanese but Koreans. Japanese government had no right to represent them. After 1910, about 541 Korean students came to study in American schools and colleges; many of them managed to enter America but refused to use passports issued to them by the Japanese government. Korean students did not want to give up their Korean identity. Korean immigrants were faced with racism, Japanese occupation of their home country, and identity crisis. 



4

Raising Cane

The World of Plantation Hawaii

Paralleling the migration of Chinese to California was the movement of Chinese, Japanese, Korean, and Filipino laborers to Hawaii, an American economic colony that became a territory of the United States in 1900. Over 300,000 Asians entered the islands between 1850 and 1920. Brought here as “cheap labor,” they filled the requisitions itemizing the needs of the plantations. Their labor enabled the planters to transform sugar production into Hawaii’s leading industry. “It is apparent,” declared the Hawaiian Gazette excitedly in 1877, “that Sugar is destined most emphatically to be ‘King.’ ” But to be “King” the sugar industry required the constant importation of workers whose increasing numbers led to the ethnic diversification of society in the islands. For example, in 1853, Hawaiians and part-Hawaiians represented 97 percent of the population of 73,137 inhabitants, while Caucasians constituted only 2 percent and Chinese only half a percent. Seventy years later, Hawaiians and part-Hawaiians made up only 16.3 percent of the population, while Caucasians represented 7.7 percent, Chinese 9.2 percent, Japanese 42.7 percent, Portuguese 10.6 percent, Puerto Ricans 2.2 percent, Koreans 1.9 percent, and Filipinos 8.2 percent.1

Hawaii was ethnically very different from the mainland. In 1920, Asians totaled 62 percent of the island population, compared to only 3.5 percent of the California population and only 0.17 percent of the continental population. Constituting a majority of the population in Hawaii, Asians were able to choose a different course than their mainland brethren. Powered by “necessity” yet buoyed by “extravagance,” they responded in their own unique ways to the world of plantation Hawaii.

Hana-hana: Working

Hawaii, Hawaii

Like a dream

So I came

But my tears

Are flowing now

In the canefields.2

Asian immigrants were not prepared for their experiences as plantation workers in Hawaii. They had come from societies where they labored to provide for their families within a context of traditions and established rules and obligations. They had greater control over their time and activities, working with family members and people they knew. “In Japan,” a plantation laborer said, “we could say, ‘It’s okay to take the day off today,’ since it was our own work. We were free to do what we wanted. We didn’t have that freedom on the plantation. We had to work ten hours every day.” The Filipino tao, or peasant farmer, followed the rhythm of the day, the weather, and the seasons in the Philippines. He worked in the fields with his wife and children, driving the carabao before him and urging his family workers to keep pace with him. Hana-hana — working on the plantation in Hawaii — was profoundly different.3

Though laborers still awoke early as they did in the old country, they were now aroused by the loud screams of a plantation siren at five in the morning. A plantation work song captured this moment:

            “Awake! stir your bones! Rouse up!

            Shrieks the Five o’Clock Whistle.

            “Don’t dream you can nestle

            For one more sweet nap.

            Or your ear-drums I’ll rap

            With my steam-hammer tap

            Till they burst.

            Br-r-row-aw-i-e-ur-ur-rup!

            Wake up! wake up! wake up! w-a-k-e-u-u-u-up!

            Filipino and Japanee;

            Porto Rican and Portugee;

            Korean, Kanaka and Chinese;

            Everybody whoever you be

            On the whole plantation —

            Wake up! wake up! wake up! w-a-k-e-u-u-u-up!

            Br-r-row-aw-i-e-ur-ur-rup!4

After the 5:00 A.M. plantation whistle had blown, the lunas (foremen) and company policemen strode through the camps. “Get up, get up,” they shouted as they knocked on the doors of the cottages and the barracks. “Hana-hana, hana-hana, work, work.” A Korean remembered the morning her mother failed to hear the work whistle and overslept: “We were all asleep — my brother and his wife, my older sister, and myself. Suddenly the door swung open, and a big burly luna burst in, screaming and cursing, ‘Get up, get to work.’ The luna ran around the room, ripping off the covers, not caring whether my family was dressed or not.” “You must wake up,” a Filipino laborer said, or else a policeman would kick open the door of your room and chase you out of bed. “I got one companion, he like lay off one morning,” he added smiling. “Oh, the policeman come, and my friend was so scared that he ran to work in his underpants.”5

“All the workers on a plantation in all their tongues and kindreds, ‘rolled out’ sometime in the early morn, before the break of day,” reported a visitor. One by one and two by two, laborers appeared from “the shadows, like a brigade of ghosts.” From an outlying camp, they came on a train, “car after car of silent figures,” their cigarettes glowing in the darkness. In front of the mill they lined up, shouldering their hoes. As the sun rose, its rays striking the tall mill stack, “quietly the word was passed from somewhere in the dimness. Suddenly and silently the gang started for its work, dividing themselves with one accord to the four quarters of the compass, each heading toward his daily task.” The workers were grouped by the foremen into gangs of twenty to thirty workers and were marched or transported by wagons and trains to the fields. Each gang was watched by a luna, who was “almost always a white man.” The ethnicity of the gangs varied. Some of them were composed of one nationality, while others were mixed. One luna said he had workers of all races in his gang, including Hawaiians, Filipinos, Puerto Ricans, Chinese, Japanese, Portuguese, and Koreans.6

There were gangs of women workers, too, for women were part of the plantation work force — about 7 percent of all workers in 1894 and 14 percent in 1920. Most of the women workers — over 80 percent of them — were Japanese. Women were concentrated in field operations, such as hoeing, stripping leaves, and harvesting. My grandmother Katsu Okawa was a cane cutter on the Hana Plantation, and my aunt Yukino Takaki was an hapaiko worker, or cane loader, on the Puunene Plantation. Though women were given many of the same work assignments as men, they were paid less than their male counterparts. Japanese-female field hands, for example, received an average wage of only fifty-five cents per day in 1915, compared to the seventy-eight cents Japanese-male field hands received.7

Women also worked in the camps: they washed laundry, cooked, and sewed clothes. “I made custom shirts with hand-bound button holes for 25 cents,” recalled a Korean woman. “My mother and sister-in-law took in laundry. They scrubbed, ironed and mended shirts for a nickel a piece. It was pitiful! Their knuckles became swollen and raw from using the harsh yellow soap.” On the Hawi Plantation, my grandmother Katsu Okawa operated a boarding house where she fed her husband and eight children as well as fifteen men every day. On the Honokaa Plantation, Mrs. Tai Yoo Kim prepared meals for her husband and twenty bachelors. Every morning at five o’clock, she fed them a breakfast of rice, broth, and kimchi. For six days a week, she packed twenty-one lunch tins with rice and dried salt fish. Then for dinner she prepared soup, rice, and a soy-seasoned dish of vegetables, meat, or fish, or a dish of corned beef and onions.8

The most regimented work was in the fields. “We worked like machines,” a laborer complained. “For 200 of us workers, there were seven or eight lunas and above them was a field boss on a horse. We were watched constantly.” A Japanese woman, interviewed years later at the age of ninety-one, said: “We had to work in the canefields, cutting cane, being afraid, not knowing the language. When any haole [white] or Portuguese luna came, we got frightened and thought we had to work harder or get fired.” “The luna carried a whip and rode a horse,” another Japanese laborer recalled. “If we talked too much the man swung the whip. He did not actually whip us but just swung his whip so that we would work harder.” A Korean woman fumed: “I’ll never forget the foreman. He said we worked like ‘lazy.’ He wanted us to work faster. He would gallop around on horseback and crack and snap his whip.”9

One of the most tedious and backbreaking tasks was hoeing weeds. Laborers had to “hoe hoe hoe … for four hours in a straight line and no talking,” said a worker. “Hoe every weed along the way to your three rows. Hoe — chop chop chop, one chop for one small weed, two for all big ones.” They had to keep their bodies bent over. They wanted to stand up and stretch, unknotting twisted bodies and feeling the freedom of arched backs. The laborers cursed the lunas, “talking stink” about the driving pace of the work: “It burns us up to have an ignorant luna stand around and holler and swear at us all the time for not working fast enough. Every so often, just to show how good he is, he’ll come up and grab a hoe and work like hell for about two minutes and then say sarcastically, ‘Why you no work like that?’ He knows and we know he couldn’t work for ten minutes at that pace.” The lunas were just plain mean “buggas.” Laborers also did “hole hole” work, the stripping of the dead leaves from the cane stalks. To protect themselves against the needles of the cane leaves, they wore heavy clothing. Still, as they left the fields each day, they found their hands badly cut by the cane leaves. In a plantation work song, Japanese laborers lamented:

Hawaii, Hawaii

But when I came

What I saw

Was hell

The boss was Satan

The lunas

His helpers.10

As they worked, laborers wore bangos hanging on chains around their necks — small brass disks with their identification numbers stamped on them. In the old country, they had names, and their names told them who they were, connecting them to family and community; in Hawaii, they were given numbers. The workers resented this new impersonal identity. Laborers were “treated no better than cows or horses,” one of them recalled. “Every worker was called by number, never by name.” The lunas “never called a man by his name,” another worker grumbled. “Always by the bango, 7209 or 6508 in that manner. And that was the thing I objected to. I wanted my name, not the number.”11

When the cane was ripe, lunas on horseback led the workers out into the fields to harvest the crop. Describing the harvesting process, a visitor wrote: “Just beyond these Chinese huts were cane-fields, an intense yellow-green, the long, slender leaves tossing in the breeze like a maize-field before the harvest. There were great bands of Japanese at work in the field.” They worked with “incredible rapidity, the line of men crossing a field, levelling the cane.”12

Cutting the ripe cane was dirty and exhausting work. As the workers mechanically swung their machetes, they felt the pain of the blisters on their hands and the scratches on their arms. “When you cutting the cane and you pulling the cane back,” a worker said, “sometimes you get scratched with the leaves from the cane because they have a little edge just like a saw blade.” Their heavy arms, their bent backs begged for a break, a moment of rest.

Becoming weary

I sit for a while to rest

In the cane field,

And whistle

To call the breezes.13

But the breezes did not always come. Twelve feet in height, the cane enclosed and dwarfed the Asian workers. As they cleared the cane “forests,” cutting the stalks close to the ground, they felt the heat of the sun, the humidity of the air, and found themselves surrounded by iron red clouds of dust. They covered their faces with handkerchiefs; still they breathed the dust and the mucus they cleared from their noses appeared blood red. “The sugar cane fields were endless and the stalks were twice the height of myself,” a Korean woman sighed. “Now that I look back, I thank goodness for the height, for if I had seen how far the fields stretched, I probably would have fainted from knowing how much work was ahead. My waistline got slimmer and my back ached from bending over all the time to cut the sugar cane.”

My husband cuts the cane stalks

And I trim their leaves

With sweat and tears we both work

For our means.14

Collecting the cane stalks, the workers tied them into bundles and loaded them onto railway cars. A train then pulled the cane to the mill where engines, presses, furnaces, boilers, vacuum pans, centrifugal drums, and other machines crushed the cane and boiled its juices into molasses and sugar. Inside the mill, laborers like my uncle Nobuyoshi Takaki felt like they were in the “hold of a steamer.” The constant loud clanking and whirring of the machinery were deafening. “It was so hot with steam in the mill,” Bashiro Tamashiro recalled, “that I became just like pupule [crazy].”15

At four-thirty in the afternoon, the workers again heard the blast of the plantation whistle, the signal to stop working. “Pau hana,” they sighed, “finished working.” Though they were exhausted and though they thought they were too tired to hoe another row of cane or carry another bundle of stalks, they suddenly felt a final burst of energy and eagerly scrambled to the camps.

In the rush at pau hana

I get caught in cane leaves,

When I stumble and fall,

They prickle, they jab.16

Planters claimed they treated their workers with “consideration and humanity,” seeking “in every possible way to advance their comfort and make them contented and happy.” But their purpose was not entirely humanitarian. Planters understood clearly that it was “good business” to have their laborers “properly fed”: it “paid” to have a “contented lot of laborers,” for they would then be able to extract a “good day’s work” from them.17

The paternalism of the planters was also intended to defuse the organizing efforts of the workers. A plantation manager explained how laborers were “capable of comprehending the difference between kind words, kind acts, kind wages generally and ruffian roughness and abuse.” Paternalism was designed to pacify labor unrest. “We should avail to get our house in order before a storm breaks,” planters told themselves. “Once the great majority of the laboring classes are busy under conditions which breed contentment … we can expect a gradual and effectual diminution of the power of the agitating [labor] element.” Planters agreed that “humanity in industry pays.”18

Plantation paternalism also served to maintain a racial and class hierarchy. White plantation managers and foremen supervised Asians, constituting 70 to 85 percent of the work force. They saw their role as “parental” and described Koreans as “childlike” and Filipinos as “more or less like children” “by nature.” The vice president of H. Hackfield and Company sent managers a circular informing them that the Filipino was “very incapable of caring for himself.” Left entirely to his own resources, the Filipino was likely to spend his money on “fancy groceries” and consequently to be insufficiently nourished. Managers should “look after” Filipino laborers. Planters explained their paternalism in terms of white racial superiority. They had spread “Caucasian civilization” to Hawaii, where they as members of “a stronger race” had to supervise and care for Asian and Hawaiian laborers. “Where there is a drop of the Anglo-Saxon blood, it is sure to rule.”19

Behind paternalism was the “necessity” of coercion. Planters believed that they should control their workers with “the strong hand.” “There is one word which holds the lower classes … in check,” they declared, “and that is Authority.” The plantation organization resembled a system of military discipline. A plantation bulletin explicitly drew an analogy between the army and the plantation work force:

To gain a picture of the plantation organization, as it directly affects irrigation, one may compare it roughly to a military organization, as follows:

Plantation Manager	The General
Department of Agriculture:
Control and Research

 
The Staff
Plantation Head Overseer	Lieutenant General Head
Irrigation Overseer	Major Section
Overseers	Captains
Reservoir Men	Supply Sergeants
Ditchmen	Corporals
Irrigation Men	The Troops20
As “generals,” plantation managers devised an intricate system of rules and regulations for their “troops.” They required their workers to be “industrious and docile and obedient,” “regular and cleanly in their personal habits,” punctual for work and rest, and present on the plantation at all times. To punish workers for violating the rules, planters developed an elaborate system of fines, which specified a charge for virtually every kind of misconduct. On one plantation, for example, workers were fined for

breaking wagon through negligence — $5.00

refusal to do work as ordered — $.25

trespass — $.50

cutting harness — $2.00

insubordination — $1.00

neglect of duty — $.50

drunkenness — $.50

drunken 


5

Ethnic Solidarity

The Settling of Japanese America

During his visit to California in the 1920s, a young Japanese man from Hawaii was shocked by the pervasiveness and intensity of anti-Japanese hostility. He had heard “various rumors” about the terrible ways whites treated the Japanese there. “But I didn’t realize the true situation until I had a personal experience,” the Nisei said. “In one instance, I went to a barber shop to get my hair trimmed. On entering the shop, one of the barbers approached me and asked for my nationality. I answered that I was Japanese, and as soon as he heard that I was of the yellow race, he drove me out of the place as if he were driving away a cat or a dog.”1

This Nisei had come from a vastly different place. In Hawaii, Japanese were needed as laborers, and they had been incorporated by the planters in a paternalistic racial hierarchy. A large white working class did not exist in the islands; in fact, most of the people in the islands were Asian and the Japanese alone represented 43 percent of the population. Their problems and difficulties were related mainly to their conditions as laborers. They were generally confined to the wage-earning plantation work force; possibilities for self-employment in shopkeeping and small farming were limited. The plantations operated retail stores for food, clothing, and other provisions, and most of the arable lands in the islands were owned by the government and the “Big Five” corporations. Aware they could not effectively advance themselves through individualism and small business, Japanese tended to emphasize a class strategy of unionization, politics, and collective action.

On the mainland, however, Japanese faced a fundamentally different “necessity.” As our Japanese youth discovered in California, here he was a member of a racial minority. Altogether, Asians were extremely few compared to whites, and the Japanese — the largest Asian group — totaled only 2 percent of the California population. While agricultural and railroad employers of Japanese laborers were willing to include Japanese in subordinate economic and social roles, whites generally scorned their very presence and white workers waged hostile and sometimes even violent campaigns to keep the Japanese out of the labor market. Ethnicity more than class tended to determine social relations on the mainland. The Japanese found certain possibilities that existed to a greater extent on the American continent than in Hawaii — the presence of economic niches for small shopkeeping and the availability of land for small farming. Consequently theirs would be a different path — ethnic solidarity and ethnic enterprise.2

Japanese ethnic solidarity — a shared identity as countrymen and common cultural values — contributed to the establishment of the Issei ethnic economy, which in turn provided an economic basis for ethnic cohesiveness. But both their ethnicity and their economy developed within an American context of what Edna Bonacich terms “ethnic antagonism.” Racial exclusionism defined the Japanese as “strangers” and pushed the Issei into a defensive Japanese ethnicity and group self-reliance. Denied access to employment in the industrial and trade labor market, many Issei entered entrepreneurial activity, turning to self-employment as shopkeepers and farmers. “When I was in Japan, I was an apprentice to a carpenter,” explained an Issei, “but in America at that time the carpenters’ union wouldn’t admit me, so I became a farmer.” Thus the Issei developed a separate Japanese economy and community, making America a society of greater cultural diversity. But the very success of the Japanese in enterprise further aroused waves of exclusionist agitation, and their very withdrawal into their self-contained ethnic communities for survival and protection reinforced hostile claims of their unassimilability and their condition as “strangers.”3

Ethnic Enterprise

Eight years after the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, there were only 2,039 Japanese on the U.S. mainland. But within two decades, the Japanese had surpassed the Chinese in number — 72,257 to 71,531. Twenty years later, while the Chinese population had remained virtually constant, the Japanese had nearly doubled to 138,834. They were concentrated in the Pacific Coast states, especially California, where 42 percent of the total continental Japanese population lived in 1900, and 70 percent thirty years later. By 1930, the Japanese were almost evenly divided between Issei, or first generation, and Nisei, second generation. Approximately 40 percent of the Japanese migrants had made America their permanent home, and together with their children they were ushering Japanese America into the teiju — the era of settlement.

Like the Chinese before them, the Japanese immigrants experienced racial discrimination. In fact, they inherited much of the resentment and prejudice that had been directed against the Chinese. Sometimes the Issei were even called “chinks.” As a young boy, Minoru Iino attended a grammar school where his white classmates looked at him with curiosity. “Some of them asked me to talk in Chinese, not realizing that I was Japanese,” he recalled. “When I talked Japanese, they all laughed.” When he walked home from school, Iino was asked by the white boys to make “Chop-Suey” for them, and heard them singing, “Ching ching chinaman chopped off his tail.”4

But the newcomers were usually viewed and treated as a distinct group. Racist curses repeatedly stung their ears: “Jap Go Home,” “Goddamn Jap!” “Yellow Jap!” “Dirty Jap!” Ugly graffiti assaulted their eyes at railroad stations and in toilets: “Japs Go Away!” “Fire the Japs!” On the street corners of Santa Monica Boulevard and Sunset Boulevard in Los Angeles, scribblings on the sidewalks threatened: “Japs, we do not want you.” Outside of a small town in the San Joaquin Valley, a sign on the highway warned: “No More Japs Wanted Here.” The term “Jap” was so commonplace it was even used unwittingly. “Attorney Morton, who was one of my acquaintances,” remembered Chohei Nishikata, “said, ‘Hello, Jap,’ or ‘Hello, Mr. Jap,’ in a friendly way whenever he saw us. Intellectual though he was, he didn’t know that ‘Jap’ was not the correct word.”5

But discrimination went beyond words. “People even spit on Japanese in the streets,” Juhei Kono told an interviewer years later. “In fact, I myself, was spit upon more than a few times.” “There was so much anti-Japanese feeling in those days!” exclaimed Choichi Nitta. “They called us ‘Japs’ and threw things at us. When I made a trip to Marysville to look for land, someone threw rocks.” Entering barbershops operated by whites, Japanese were told: “We don’t cut animal’s hair.” When the newcomers tried to rent or buy houses, they were turned down by realtors who explained: “If Japanese live around here, then the price of the land will go down.” At theaters, Japanese were often refused admittance or seated in a segregated section. “I went to a theatre on Third Avenue with my wife and friends,” an Issei recalled. “We were all led up to the second balcony with the Blacks.” In the cities, they were pelted with stones and snowballs, and their businesses were vandalized — their store windows smashed and the sidewalks in front smeared with horse manure. In the country, Japanese labor camps were time and again attacked by whites, and Japanese-owned barns became targets for arson.

For a little while

Encountering a person

Who was anti-Japanese,

I rubbed against a spirit

Out of harmony with mine.6

At times it was difficult for them to restrain their rage. “They called us ‘Japs,’ so we kicked them, and they ran away,” growled Minejiro Shibata. “Whenever the whites looked down on me, I got really mad.… They must have thought of us as something like dogs.” Victims of racial slurs in school, Japanese children sometimes lost their tempers. “During recess the white children all gathered round me and bullied me, calling out ‘Jap! Jap!’ ” remembered Yoshito Kawachi. “I got to the point where I couldn’t stand it anymore, so I bought candy and gave it out little by little to those who were friendly. After a while everybody started shaking hands with me — all except two girls who persisted in being hard on me. Finally my patience broke and I hit them one day.”7

The Japanese on the mainland experienced not only more intense racial discrimination but also a more impersonal labor structure than their counterparts in Hawaii. During the early decades, most mainland Japanese were located in migratory labor; in 1909, there were 40,000 in agriculture, 10,000 in railroads, and 4,000 in canneries. Unlike plantation workers, they did not have a direct relationship with their employers: Japanese labor contractors, keiyakunin, operated as intermediaries between laborers and employers. They functioned as employment agents, recruiting laborers in the port cities, transporting them to the work sites in the country, and negotiating wages and labor conditions. They charged a fee or commission, to be deducted from wages. Contractor Kumamoto Hifume, for example, collected ten cents from the $1.10 daily wage of each worker he had recruited for the Northern Pacific Railroad. A contractor with a work force of a thousand men would have a lucrative income. A supplier of labor to employers, contractors also served as foremen or field bosses: they supervised the workers, translated instructions, and disbursed wages.8

Japanese workers found that their employers had virtually no interest in their welfare. The labor contract arrangement and the migratory nature of work precluded paternalism and employer responsibility. Constantly moving from field to field and carrying blankets for bedding, migratory farm laborers were called buranke-katsugi — persons who shouldered blankets. They did not live in permanent camps where they could build stable communities: they were literally here today and gone tomorrow. Constantly shuttled from one construction site to another, railroad workers lived in boxcars, sleeping in double-decked bunks. “We slept in the freight cars, suffering a lot from troops of bedbugs. In order to protect ourselves from these despicable insects we each made a big sleeping sack out of cotton cloth, crawled in with our comforter and blanket, and then pulled the string tight at the top to close up the sack.” Japanese cannery workers were shipped from the West Coast to Alaska then sent back after the fishing season.9

In the valleys during the summer, farm workers felt the hot wind blowing against their perspiring bodies as the temperature went up to 120 degrees and the field became as “hot as though it were paved with hot iron boards.” In the mountains during the winter, railroad workers were whipped by frigid winds. “In winter … the temperature went down to 20 degrees below freezing,” they recalled. “Because of the severe cold, our excrement froze immediately when we went to the toilet outside the tent.” They tried to fight off the weather by singing:

A railroad worker —

That’s me!

I am great.

Yes, I am a railroad worker.

Complaining:

“It is too hot!”

“It is too cold!”

“It rains too often!”

“It snows too much!”

They all ran off.

I alone remained.

I am a railroad worker!10

But the laborers were usually too tired to sing. Loading eight-foot ties onto freight cars from 7:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M. every day was enough to make railroad workers “grit their teeth” and “scream.” The square logs bit into their shoulders, leaving them in a “greasy sweat.” In Alaska, Japanese cannery workers had to race furiously and frantically against the machinery. After the boats brought in the catch of salmon, conveyor belts carried as many as two hundred salmon per minute up to the deck. The men, holding hooks in both hands, had to sort this charging multitude of huge fish and did not have a single second to relax. The cannery workers suffered from a particular problem — the “Alaskan smell,” “a nasal cocktail of rotten fish, salt, sweat and filth.” They would strip to the skin, throw away their work clothes, and scrub themselves thoroughly in the shower. Still the smell “wouldn’t come off, as if it had penetrated to their very guts.” Bathed in dusty sweat, farm laborers worked in the fields from dawn to dust, harvesting the crops and hoeing the weeds, row after row, their bodies constantly bent. They cursed the compression of their lives:

All my living days

Gripped tightly and pressed into

That old hoe handle!11

They also swore at the tasteless food and monotonous diet. Japanese farm laborers “drank river water brought in by irrigation ditches. When they felt hungry, they devoured fresh grapes. If they ate supper, it consisted of flour dumplings in a soup seasoned with salt.” Railroad workers also ate dumpling soup, called suiton. “For breakfast and for supper we ate dumpling soup, and for lunch we had baked dumplings,” said Kumaichi Horike. “Since we didn’t have real soy sauce, we used home-made sauce concocted from burned flour, plus sugar, salt and water — a strange mixture indeed.”

Sticky dumpling soup

And immigrant episodes,

Mixed into a stew!

Many suffered from malnutrition and night blindness due to their poor diets. At the end of the month, after payday, the railroad workers would leave their mountain camps and travel to town. There they bought bourbon at one or two dollars a bottle, canned salmon, and rice. Homesick for Japanese food, the hungry men made “extravagant” rice balls covered with slices of salmon and gleefully consumed their improvised sushi.12

Getting drunk on cheap whiskey, the workers sang the songs of Japan and talked about home. Sometimes homesickness overwhelmed them. “After a while I finally became night-blind,” a railroad worker recounted sadly. “I couldn’t see things in the evening, so I quit working earlier than other people. One day I was standing in front of a shack, alone and lonely. I saw a woman approaching along the railroad from a distance. I felt it was strange and gazed at her, and discovered that the woman was my dear old grandma in my hometown. ‘Oh, grandma!’ Shouting, I ran toward her — but suddenly she disappeared. I was seized with a sharp homesickness, and in the middle of that wasteland I wept out loud.”13

During their hours of leisure, Japanese laborers had little to do but gamble. A 1902 labor handbook warned them: “As a laborer in the countryside, you will toil from dawn to dusk with only shots of whiskey and cigarettes to enjoy. Beware of gambling! Why did you leave your home and cross the wide Pacific to endure hardships in this foreign land? It was of course to enrich your family and benefit the homeland. Then, why try to forget your long days of toil by gambling?” But the workers had to do something to pass the time, to help them forget. And they might, they hoped, even strike it rich. They retreated to Japanese pool halls, which seemed to be ubiquitous — forty-one in San Francisco, twenty-one in Sacramento, nineteen in Fresno, and thirty-five in Los Angeles in 1912. To find female companionship, lonely men went to Japanese bar-restaurants where shakufu (barmaids) served them familiar foods and spoke Japanese with charm and traditional deference.14

Perhaps we should stay in the city, the men wondered, and find work there. But work in the city was also demanding and exhausting. Restaurant worker Tadashi Yamaguchi remembered how he had to wake up at four o’clock in the morning in order to start the wood fire for the stove. “I began to serve guests at 6 A.M. At 11 A.M. when the chief cook prepared dinner, I was in charge of the pantry and arranged the salad orders. My work was finished at 8 P.M.” Describing the daily labor and life of laundry workers, Tsuruyo Takami of Spokane detailed her long day: “My husband was running the Rainier Laundry.… At noon I had to prepare a meal for twelve. The employees worked from 8 A.M. to 5 P.M., but I began to fix the dinner at 5 P.M., cooking for five or six persons, and then after that I started my night work. The difficult ironing and pressing was left for me.… Frequently I had to work till twelve or one o’clock. Not only I, but all the ladies engaged in the laundry business had the same duties.”15

In the cities, a separate Japanese economy of hotels, boarding houses, restaurants, shops, stores, and pool halls quickly sprang up to meet the immigrants’ needs. In the Nihonmachi, or Little Tokyo section, Japanese could feel comfortable among compatriots while avoiding racial discrimination from white-owned businesses. There they could also make connections for employment. Newly arrived immigrants could stay at a hotel or boarding house where labor contractors helped them find employment outside of the city. The owner of three boarding houses and the Tamura Hotel in San Francisco, Tamura Tokunosuke provided lodging to Japanese immigrants and supplied laborers to contractors at the rate of three dollars per worker.16

By 1909, according to the Immigration Commission, there were between 3,000 and 3,500 Japanese-owned establishments in the western states, most of them in major cities like San Francisco, Seattle, Los Angeles, and Sacramento. In its survey of 2,277 Japanese businesses, the commission found that 337 were hotels and boarding houses, 381 restaurants, 187 barbershops, 136 poolrooms, 136 tailor and dye shops, 124 provision and supply stores, 97 laundries, and 105 shoe shops. This Japanese ethnic economy created jobs, especially for some 12,000 service workers.17

The formation of the Japanese urban economy was sudden and extensive. Between 1900 and 1909, the number of Japanese businesses jumped from ninety to 545 in San Francisco and from fifty-six to 473 in Los Angeles. By 

===Lecture===
1 People in South Asia

India was a British colony for a long time. In 1608, the East India Company, powerful business organization consisting of the wealthiest British merchants send their ships to South Asia to set up trading ports. Ruled by the Islamic Mughal [mu:gel] Dynasty, India was big in size but declining as a religious empire. There were many religious groups in India such as Hindus, Buddhists, Sikhs, or Muslims. As a pioneer colonial power, the East India Company had its private army. In the middle of the 18th century, the Company successfully excluded the French influence in India and forced the Mughal emperor to turn over the revenue administration. By the mid-18th century, after defeating various local feudal lords, the East India Company became the ruler of the entire Indian subcontinent.

2 India as a British Colony

British government passed the India Act of 1784 in order to supervise the Company's political operations. The 1793 Settlement Act, for example, defined a landlord as a person who could pay land revenue on time and in cash. Many small land owners could not meet the demand and had to register their property under larger landowners who could now transfer, purchase and sell land according to British land policies. Colonial rule transformed the area into a cash crop producing region. Many small farmers went bankrupt and become migrant laborers. Then in 1813 Britain passed the Charter Act that officially claimed that India was “the undoubted sovereignty of the Crown of the United Kingdom British India.” India won independence in August 1947 after nearly two centuries as part of the British Empire -- and a four-decade nationalist campaign led by Mohandas K. “Mahatma” Gandhi. India is the second-most- populous nation, a federal state with a parliamentary form of government, with 15 major languages, 5 key religions and countless castes. But English was the official language since the British rule and has been widely used in high education, business and many other fields. 

3 The Sikhs and their Military Tradition

Though referred as "Hindus" most early Asian Indian immigrants were Sikhs. (Takaki noticed that one third of them were Muslims). Sikhism as a religion developed during the 16th century. Sikhism has 500 years of history, and 200 million believers, and is the 5th largest religious group in India. (There are 250,00 Sikhs in the US today.) It preached equal dignity for all people and challenged the Hindu caste system and the dominance of the Hindu priestly class. The caste system allowed no change of social status among people. If someone was born in a low caste, that person remained in that caste for life. Hinduism believed that people were spiritually unequal. Priests ranked top followed by warriors, merchants, craftsmen, and menial workers. In India, 50% people were Muslims, 30% Hindus, and Sikhs were 15%. Out of military conflicts with the Islamic Mughals or other ethnic/religious groups, Sikh men developed a long tradition of fighting as a brotherhood. They were wearing turban, carried daggers, and an iron bracelet and did not cut hair. Sikhs stressed the equality of all men and trained themselves as organized militia men. When British army tried to conquer Punjab in 1849 -- the last region to be conquered, they had to fight three battles to win the war. The British met with strong resistance from the Sikhs.   

4 Punjab [pun'dga:b](land of five rivers)
Punjab refers five contiguous districts of the state of Punjab. (Jullunder, Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur, Amritsar, and Ludhiana) It is an area shared by two countries now -- India and Pakistan. It is the northwestern region of India -- plain area of the province with dense population, and is a prosperous agriculture area with fertile land in the north. Jat caste was the dominant land owning caste throughout Punjab. Jat caste Sikhs were Punjabi-speaking land-owning farmers. Before 20th century, caste, kinship and locality rather than religion were more important elements of identity in India. 

5 Indian Labor Immigration

Hinduism, the predominant religion in India, had certain taboos against sea travel; in Indian agricultural system, the laborers were bound to the land. By the end of 18th century, however, because of increased overseas contact under British rule, Indian laborers could be found in most of the ports of Southeast Asia. With the abolition of slavery in the British Empire in 1834, and the refusal of freed slaves to work on the sugar plantations of Trinidad, Jamaica, British Guiana, and Mauritius, the sugar plantation owners became keenly interested in recruiting Indian laborers. During the 19th century, 700,000 Indians were taken to the West Indies, British Guiana, and Mauritius as indentured laborers. Before 1870, Calcutta, a city in Bengal, was the center of British power. Emigrants were drawn from surrounding area of Calcutta.

6 From soldiers to immigrants

Sikh population only constituted 1% of the total Indian population, yet formed one-fifth of the British Army in India. During WW1, over 65 % Indian troops came from Punjab; and British Indian soldiers were also sent to China, Southeast Asia, and East Africa. Global expansion of British Empire needed Silk soldiers. They were stationed in Hong Kong, Canton, Rangoon, Burma, Singapore, Shanghai, Tianjin, Manila, and Canada. They were used as British soldiers among the 8th Allied forces taken to Beijing during the Boxer Movement in 1900. Records about Indian immigrants in Southern California shows that two out of three Punjabies gave Hong Kong as their place of emigration. In Hong Kong, Shanghai, or Canton, they found it more feasible to accumulate travel money by serving in the British army and obtained information about Canada and the United States. In 1910, a gurdwara (Sikh temple) was established in Hong Kong; a large Sikh community of solders, policemen, watchmen, and businessmen. An Indian immigrant said in 1924:"I was born in the Punjab district of India and served on the police force in Hong Kong, China, for some years.  While I was in China several Hindus returned and reported on the ease with which they could make money in America and so I decided to go.”

Image result for singh soldier in Hong kong

7 Transportation under British Colonial Rule

British colonial government built roads, railways, and canals in India. British interest in Punjab stemmed from a conscious recognition of the agricultural wealth of the area and a fear of the expansionist motives of Imperial Russia. In order to secure British interest in Punjab and Afghanistan, the colonial government build over 20,000 miles of roads by the end of the 19th century, connecting the larger cities of the north with border military outposts. Railway construction also linked Punjab heartland to all major cities and ports; about 2,000 miles of railways were built in the Punjab Province itself.

8 From Home to Overseas

The railways linked Amritsar, the religious center of the Sikhs, with new Delhi, India's capital after 1912. Former Indian soldiers took train from there to Calcutta[k@l'k te], a port city in Bengal[bbeg''g l], along the northeastern coast of India. They then board steamers for Hong Kong in 12 days, and a further secure passage to many parts of the world including Manila, Singapore, Shanghai, Yokohama, Vancouver and San Francisco for another 16 to 18 days journal. They could get to seaports, quickly, cheaply and safely; the cost was about $50 to take ships from Hong Kong to Vancouver or San Francisco. They traveled in groups of at least of five to ten in the initial period; not from the coastal region.

9 In Canada

In British Columbia, the census recorded that 43 of Indians in 1905, 387 in 1906 and then 2,693 in 1907 and 2632 in 1908. By 1908, there were actually 5,179 Indians there. They lived and worked primarily in Vancouver. They were recruited by labor-recruiting companies which mainly served the interest of railroad construction business and steamship companies. But many of them also came through well-established social network among themselves. Prejudice against Asian Indians was actually a resentment against the Japanese immigrants in Canada. Japanese also migrated to Canada. The Anglo-Japanese Alliance of 1902, and extension of commercial advantages received by Canada under the terms of the Anglo-Japanese Convention in 1905 did not allow a strong anti-Japanese movement in Canada. Moreover, unlike the Japanese and Chinese there, who did domestic labor, gardening, or agriculture, the Indians were engaged in mill work and street work, the same work done by the white labor. Consequently anti-Asian sentiments directed toward them rather than the Japanese.

Asian Indians Part 2 and Lecture 8

10 "Continuous Trip" Requirement

In 1908, two Orders-in-Council were passed to bar those Indians who came to Canada not through a "continuous trip." The Canadian authority required that incoming immigrants possess $200 which used to be $50 and they take ships coming directly to Canada from their home country. The Government also pressured the steamship company not to spread unrealistic propaganda about opportunities in Canada. After 1909, Canada increased fees required for immigrants to remain in Canada.  A Sikh merchant charted a Japanese ship to take Indians to Vancouver directly from India in order to circumvent the "continuous journey provision." But all the passengers were kept for two months during negotiation and food and water was running out when they arrived. Vancouver Sikhs raised money to pay the ship company, to communicate with the British government, Indian government, but the ship finally was forced to leave the port.

12 Push and Pull Factors and Coming to U.S.

Coming to the US was Indian immigrants’ second-phrase migration or to spill over America. Both anti-Asian sentiment in Canada and labor demand for railway construction and agribusiness such as fruit growing led several thousand of Asian Indians to come to California via British Columbia before 1909 and directly from India after that. Between 1899-1914, about 7,000 Indians landed at ports in Washington, Oregon, and California.  Most of them were peasants, former soldiers, or small craftsmen, and a small number of students. In Jullundur and Hoshiarpur, the central part of Punjab, average landholding was under 5 acres while 12.5 acres in the canal colonies. In India farmers followed equal inheritance law in regard to family property. An Indian immigrant said that he made 16 cents in Indian while he made 2 dollars a day in California.

13 Indian in Agriculture and Settlement

In the U.S., 75 to 80% of the Indian immigrants worked as unskilled laborers. They started working for the railroads or in lumber mills, and then found work in California's vegetable or fruit farms in the Sacramento Valley, San Joaquin Valley, and the Imperial Valley in Southern California. They grew fruit, rice and vegetables. By 1920, they worked on some 85,000 acres of farms in each of these valleys. In the Imperial Valley where they grew grape and celery, operated about 30,000 acres land. As farmers, they could be heavily indebted when the agri-business was bad. Indian boss men signed contract with large ranches and hire labor crews. Some Indians open stores. Boss men and store men spoke better English and wealthier. Indian laborers worked in gangs from 3 to 50 with a team leader or contractor. Many Indians also worked for the lumber industry in Washington State. The three Valleys were the earliest areas of their settlement. In cities, they often stayed with other Asians. In 1918 in Fresno, they stayed in the Japanese boarding houses behind Chinatown. In Marysville their boarding houses were in the heart of Chinatown, next to the Bok Kai temple on the Feather River levee.  In L.A., they also resided around the Little Tokyo before 1918.

14 Racial Discrimination

In 1909, a federal Immigration Commission's report said: "the Hindus are regarded as the least desirable, or better, the most undesirable, of all the East Asiatic races which have come to share our shore." This is a report about Asian Indian laborers along the Pacific Coast. The 1920 California State Board of Control said: "The Hindu is the most undesirable immigrants in the State. His lack of personal clearness, his low morals, and his blind adherence to his own theories and teachings makes him unfit for association with American people." The rejection rate of Asian Indian immigrants before 1907 was fewer than 10%, and in 1907 was 28%. In 1909, 1911, and 1913 the rejection rate was over 50%. In September 1907, several hundred Caucasian workers in lumber-mill in Bellingham, Washington, attacked the living quarters of Asian Indians and forced about seven hundreds of them to flee across the Canadian border. In early November that year, 500 white workers rounded up Asian Indians in Everett. Washington, and drove them off from the city blaming Asian Indian workers as cheap laborers.

15 Asiatic Exclusion League

This powerful racist organization was established in 1905 and based in San Francisco, and was named originally Japanese and Korean Exclusion League. It took the initiative to warn America public about the threat of Asian Indians, calling them "untrustworthy," "unsanitary, immodest, and lustful." In December 1909, AEL protested to the US Immigration authority for Asian Indians' entry into America, when the number of Asian Indians was small. But the AEL insisted that the Japanese was a small number when they started to migrate to America. Under pressure, the immigration authority tightened the immigration policy. Between 1908 to1910, about 1,130 entries were rejected; 40% on the ground that they would be public charges. In 1909, 377 admitted; in 1910, the demand for labor on the Western Pacific Railroad allowed 1,782 of them to be admitted. The 1910 census reported a total of 5,424 in America with about half in California. But the League's estimate was 10,000 and told the public that about 5,000 Indians entered the U.S. in 1909. Hart North, director of Immigration Bureau of San Francisco resigned under the pressure.

16 "Aryan Race" and the 1913 Federal Judge Rule

“Aryan race” was an alleged human race originated in Iranian plateau, and an Indo-European language speaking culture. The AEL particularly feared that the federal courts might accept Asian Indians as white and give them citizenship. The AEL insisted that though students of ethnological subjects all agree that the Hindus are members of the same family as the white, yet the forefathers of Caucasians in the U.S. pressed to the West and became a civilized race while the East Aryans were slaves of Creation. Some Punjabi men continue to come through getting admitted to the Philippines, and then came the U.S. mainland. In 1913, a federal judge ruled that they could be deported if entering America through this strategy.

17 The Immigration Act of 1917

To forbid people coming from "the barred zone," an imaginary line was drawn across the world to ban certain people from coming to America. The line was from the Red Sea to the Mediterranean, Aegean, and Black seas, through the Caucasus Mountains in Russia and included many other areas in Asia (including for example the Caspian Sea, along the Ural River and then through Ural Mountains.) All people on the east of the line were people in the "Barred Zone." The law actually tried to stop Asian Indians as they could be labeled as Caucasians.

18 Citizenship, Ozawa Case and Caucasian Race

In the Ozawa case of 1922, the Supreme Court had ruled that Japanese were ineligible to citizenship as it was only available for "white person." Ozawa argued that he was a white because he had a fair skin. But the court said that in the1870 statute a white person meant a person of the Caucasian race. Asian Indians were initially pleased by the decision.  Since 1907, about 70 Indians had been granted citizenship by various local legal authorities, though the Justice Department had repeatedly contested the cases. But the lower federal courts insisted that according to the precedent cases of 1910 U.S. vs Balsara and 1913 Akhoy Jumar Mazumdar decisions, which ruled that Asian Indians were Caucasians and thus entitled under the naturalization laws of 1790 and 1875.

19 The Thind Case

In 1923, Bhaga Singh Thind, a Sikh, had been granted citizenship by a federal court in Oregon, but then he was denied citizenship by the Supreme Court. The Supreme court held that the word "white" in the 1870 statute meant "white" in the "understanding of the common man." The Supreme court decided that the 1790 naturalization law meant for immigrants from West and North Europe. The 1870 law included immigrants from all over Europe but Indians not included in the above laws. The 1917 Barred Zone law denied Asian Indian immigration. So Thind lost the case. The case now clearly interpreted the concept of race based nothing but physical features.

20 Return Rate and a Small Community

Between 1920 to 1940, some 3,000 Indian immigrants returned and most left voluntarily though a few hundred were deported. By 1930, the Indian population dropped to 3,130 and by 1940, to 2,405 while about 3,000 Indians illegally emigrated to the U.S. through Mexican boarder. Their Community was small and managed to survive with religion as the unifying element. Most Indian immigrants visited the mosques and temples on holy days; the Sikh Temple in Stockton in North California served as the principal religious and social centers. 

21 Different Ethnicity and Similar Race: Marriage with Mexican Women

Few Indian men brought their wives to America; they remained very isolated in their social life. Such isolation was enhanced by their retention of native customs and dress, especially their turban. California anti-miscegenation law prohibited marriage between different race groups. When a Punjab man had a love affair with a white woman, his white neighbor rusted him out of her house with a shotgun and had him arrested. Marriage with Mexican women also invited attack from Mexican men until it became a accepted pattern. Indian men and Mexican women were different ethnic groups but both belonged to people of color. A scholar tracked almost 400 Asian Indian families before 1946, mostly in the Imperial and Sacramento valleys. Of these marriages, only nine -- fewer than 2.5% -- seem to have been with Asian Indian women. Majority Indians married with women from Mexican or Mexican American migratory worker families, women workers picking cotton on the Indian men's farms. Cotton was the crop that brought the couple together.  Mexican Revolution of 1910 displaced many Mexican families to California and other parts of the Southwest. Picking cotton was a family affair, man, woman and children worked side by side. Back in Punjab, it was the only job for Jat caste woman to work outdoors.

22 Network Marriage and Identity for Children

Marriage of Sikh men and Mexican women was often a tendency for sisters of one family to marry various Indian farm partners. As a result, many household contained related women. Some Indian men still had wives in Indian and sent remittance there. A Mexican father and his 8 children picking cotton for Sikh farmers.  The eldest daughter was courted by one partner, the second by another, and the third by still another. These daughters were at the age of 20, 20, and 17. The men were usually in their late thirties; women involved often arranged their relatives marry their husbands' friends or partners. The children's first names, home language and religion training all reflected the mothers' authority in the domestic realm. Almost all of the children were given Hispanic first names like Jose Akbar Khan or Maria Jesusita Singh. 


===Takaki, Strangers from a Different Shore: A History of Asian Americans===

1 People in South Asia

India was a British colony for a long time. In 1608, the East India Company, powerful business organization consisting of the wealthiest British merchants send their ships to South Asia to set up trading ports. Ruled by the Islamic Mughal [mu:gel] Dynasty, India was big in size but declining as a religious empire. There were many religious groups in India such as Hindus, Buddhists, Sikhs, or Muslims. As a pioneer colonial power, the East India Company had its private army. In the middle of the 18th century, the Company successfully excluded the French influence in India and forced the Mughal emperor to turn over the revenue administration. By the mid-18th century, after defeating various local feudal lords, the East India Company became the ruler of the entire Indian subcontinent.

2 India as a British Colony

British government passed the India Act of 1784 in order to supervise the Company's political operations. The 1793 Settlement Act, for example, defined a landlord as a person who could pay land revenue on time and in cash. Many small land owners could not meet the demand and had to register their property under larger landowners who could now transfer, purchase and sell land according to British land policies. Colonial rule transformed the area into a cash crop producing region. Many small farmers went bankrupt and become migrant laborers. Then in 1813 Britain passed the Charter Act that officially claimed that India was “the undoubted sovereignty of the Crown of the United Kingdom British India.” India won independence in August 1947 after nearly two centuries as part of the British Empire -- and a four-decade nationalist campaign led by Mohandas K. “Mahatma” Gandhi. India is the second-most- populous nation, a federal state with a parliamentary form of government, with 15 major languages, 5 key religions and countless castes. But English was the official language since the British rule and has been widely used in high education, business and many other fields. 

3 The Sikhs and their Military Tradition

Though referred as "Hindus" most early Asian Indian immigrants were Sikhs. (Takaki noticed that one third of them were Muslims). Sikhism as a religion developed during the 16th century. Sikhism has 500 years of history, and 200 million believers, and is the 5th largest religious group in India. (There are 250,00 Sikhs in the US today.) It preached equal dignity for all people and challenged the Hindu caste system and the dominance of the Hindu priestly class. The caste system allowed no change of social status among people. If someone was born in a low caste, that person remained in that caste for life. Hinduism believed that people were spiritually unequal. Priests ranked top followed by warriors, merchants, craftsmen, and menial workers. In India, 50% people were Muslims, 30% Hindus, and Sikhs were 15%. Out of military conflicts with the Islamic Mughals or other ethnic/religious groups, Sikh men developed a long tradition of fighting as a brotherhood. They were wearing turban, carried daggers, and an iron bracelet and did not cut hair. Sikhs stressed the equality of all men and trained themselves as organized militia men. When British army tried to conquer Punjab in 1849 -- the last region to be conquered, they had to fight three battles to win the war. The British met with strong resistance from the Sikhs.   

4 Punjab [pun'dga:b](land of five rivers)
Punjab refers five contiguous districts of the state of Punjab. (Jullunder, Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur, Amritsar, and Ludhiana) It is an area shared by two countries now -- India and Pakistan. It is the northwestern region of India -- plain area of the province with dense population, and is a prosperous agriculture area with fertile land in the north. Jat caste was the dominant land owning caste throughout Punjab. Jat caste Sikhs were Punjabi-speaking land-owning farmers. Before 20th century, caste, kinship and locality rather than religion were more important elements of identity in India. 

5 Indian Labor Immigration

Hinduism, the predominant religion in India, had certain taboos against sea travel; in Indian agricultural system, the laborers were bound to the land. By the end of 18th century, however, because of increased overseas contact under British rule, Indian laborers could be found in most of the ports of Southeast Asia. With the abolition of slavery in the British Empire in 1834, and the refusal of freed slaves to work on the sugar plantations of Trinidad, Jamaica, British Guiana, and Mauritius, the sugar plantation owners became keenly interested in recruiting Indian laborers. During the 19th century, 700,000 Indians were taken to the West Indies, British Guiana, and Mauritius as indentured laborers. Before 1870, Calcutta, a city in Bengal, was the center of British power. Emigrants were drawn from surrounding area of Calcutta.

6 From soldiers to immigrants

Sikh population only constituted 1% of the total Indian population, yet formed one-fifth of the British Army in India. During WW1, over 65 % Indian troops came from Punjab; and British Indian soldiers were also sent to China, Southeast Asia, and East Africa. Global expansion of British Empire needed Silk soldiers. They were stationed in Hong Kong, Canton, Rangoon, Burma, Singapore, Shanghai, Tianjin, Manila, and Canada. They were used as British soldiers among the 8th Allied forces taken to Beijing during the Boxer Movement in 1900. Records about Indian immigrants in Southern California shows that two out of three Punjabies gave Hong Kong as their place of emigration. In Hong Kong, Shanghai, or Canton, they found it more feasible to accumulate travel money by serving in the British army and obtained information about Canada and the United States. In 1910, a gurdwara (Sikh temple) was established in Hong Kong; a large Sikh community of solders, policemen, watchmen, and businessmen. An Indian immigrant said in 1924:"I was born in the Punjab district of India and served on the police force in Hong Kong, China, for some years.  While I was in China several Hindus returned and reported on the ease with which they could make money in America and so I decided to go.”

Image result for singh soldier in Hong kong

7 Transportation under British Colonial Rule

British colonial government built roads, railways, and canals in India. British interest in Punjab stemmed from a conscious recognition of the agricultural wealth of the area and a fear of the expansionist motives of Imperial Russia. In order to secure British interest in Punjab and Afghanistan, the colonial government build over 20,000 miles of roads by the end of the 19th century, connecting the larger cities of the north with border military outposts. Railway construction also linked Punjab heartland to all major cities and ports; about 2,000 miles of railways were built in the Punjab Province itself.

8 From Home to Overseas

The railways linked Amritsar, the religious center of the Sikhs, with new Delhi, India's capital after 1912. Former Indian soldiers took train from there to Calcutta[k@l'k te], a port city in Bengal[bbeg''g l], along the northeastern coast of India. They then board steamers for Hong Kong in 12 days, and a further secure passage to many parts of the world including Manila, Singapore, Shanghai, Yokohama, Vancouver and San Francisco for another 16 to 18 days journal. They could get to seaports, quickly, cheaply and safely; the cost was about $50 to take ships from Hong Kong to Vancouver or San Francisco. They traveled in groups of at least of five to ten in the initial period; not from the coastal region.

9 In Canada

In British Columbia, the census recorded that 43 of Indians in 1905, 387 in 1906 and then 2,693 in 1907 and 2632 in 1908. By 1908, there were actually 5,179 Indians there. They lived and worked primarily in Vancouver. They were recruited by labor-recruiting companies which mainly served the interest of railroad construction business and steamship companies. But many of them also came through well-established social network among themselves. Prejudice against Asian Indians was actually a resentment against the Japanese immigrants in Canada. Japanese also migrated to Canada. The Anglo-Japanese Alliance of 1902, and extension of commercial advantages received by Canada under the terms of the Anglo-Japanese Convention in 1905 did not allow a strong anti-Japanese movement in Canada. Moreover, unlike the Japanese and Chinese there, who did domestic labor, gardening, or agriculture, the Indians were engaged in mill work and street work, the same work done by the white labor. Consequently anti-Asian sentiments directed toward them rather than the Japanese.

Asian Indians Part 2 and Lecture 8

10 "Continuous Trip" Requirement

In 1908, two Orders-in-Council were passed to bar those Indians who came to Canada not through a "continuous trip." The Canadian authority required that incoming immigrants possess $200 which used to be $50 and they take ships coming directly to Canada from their home country. The Government also pressured the steamship company not to spread unrealistic propaganda about opportunities in Canada. After 1909, Canada increased fees required for immigrants to remain in Canada.  A Sikh merchant charted a Japanese ship to take Indians to Vancouver directly from India in order to circumvent the "continuous journey provision." But all the passengers were kept for two months during negotiation and food and water was running out when they arrived. Vancouver Sikhs raised money to pay the ship company, to communicate with the British government, Indian government, but the ship finally was forced to leave the port.

12 Push and Pull Factors and Coming to U.S.

Coming to the US was Indian immigrants’ second-phrase migration or to spill over America. Both anti-Asian sentiment in Canada and labor demand for railway construction and agribusiness such as fruit growing led several thousand of Asian Indians to come to California via British Columbia before 1909 and directly from India after that. Between 1899-1914, about 7,000 Indians landed at ports in Washington, Oregon, and California.  Most of them were peasants, former soldiers, or small craftsmen, and a small number of students. In Jullundur and Hoshiarpur, the central part of Punjab, average landholding was under 5 acres while 12.5 acres in the canal colonies. In India farmers followed equal inheritance law in regard to family property. An Indian immigrant said that he made 16 cents in Indian while he made 2 dollars a day in California.

13 Indian in Agriculture and Settlement

In the U.S., 75 to 80% of the Indian immigrants worked as unskilled laborers. They started working for the railroads or in lumber mills, and then found work in California's vegetable or fruit farms in the Sacramento Valley, San Joaquin Valley, and the Imperial Valley in Southern California. They grew fruit, rice and vegetables. By 1920, they worked on some 85,000 acres of farms in each of these valleys. In the Imperial Valley where they grew grape and celery, operated about 30,000 acres land. As farmers, they could be heavily indebted when the agri-business was bad. Indian boss men signed contract with large ranches and hire labor crews. Some Indians open stores. Boss men and store men spoke better English and wealthier. Indian laborers worked in gangs from 3 to 50 with a team leader or contractor. Many Indians also worked for the lumber industry in Washington State. The three Valleys were the earliest areas of their settlement. In cities, they often stayed with other Asians. In 1918 in Fresno, they stayed in the Japanese boarding houses behind Chinatown. In Marysville their boarding houses were in the heart of Chinatown, next to the Bok Kai temple on the Feather River levee.  In L.A., they also resided around the Little Tokyo before 1918.

14 Racial Discrimination

In 1909, a federal Immigration Commission's report said: "the Hindus are regarded as the least desirable, or better, the most undesirable, of all the East Asiatic races which have come to share our shore." This is a report about Asian Indian laborers along the Pacific Coast. The 1920 California State Board of Control said: "The Hindu is the most undesirable immigrants in the State. His lack of personal clearness, his low morals, and his blind adherence to his own theories and teachings makes him unfit for association with American people." The rejection rate of Asian Indian immigrants before 1907 was fewer than 10%, and in 1907 was 28%. In 1909, 1911, and 1913 the rejection rate was over 50%. In September 1907, several hundred Caucasian workers in lumber-mill in Bellingham, Washington, attacked the living quarters of Asian Indians and forced about seven hundreds of them to flee across the Canadian border. In early November that year, 500 white workers rounded up Asian Indians in Everett. Washington, and drove them off from the city blaming Asian Indian workers as cheap laborers.

15 Asiatic Exclusion League

This powerful racist organization was established in 1905 and based in San Francisco, and was named originally Japanese and Korean Exclusion League. It took the initiative to warn America public about the threat of Asian Indians, calling them "untrustworthy," "unsanitary, immodest, and lustful." In December 1909, AEL protested to the US Immigration authority for Asian Indians' entry into America, when the number of Asian Indians was small. But the AEL insisted that the Japanese was a small number when they started to migrate to America. Under pressure, the immigration authority tightened the immigration policy. Between 1908 to1910, about 1,130 entries were rejected; 40% on the ground that they would be public charges. In 1909, 377 admitted; in 1910, the demand for labor on the Western Pacific Railroad allowed 1,782 of them to be admitted. The 1910 census reported a total of 5,424 in America with about half in California. But the League's estimate was 10,000 and told the public that about 5,000 Indians entered the U.S. in 1909. Hart North, director of Immigration Bureau of San Francisco resigned under the pressure.

16 "Aryan Race" and the 1913 Federal Judge Rule

“Aryan race” was an alleged human race originated in Iranian plateau, and an Indo-European language speaking culture. The AEL particularly feared that the federal courts might accept Asian Indians as white and give them citizenship. The AEL insisted that though students of ethnological subjects all agree that the Hindus are members of the same family as the white, yet the forefathers of Caucasians in the U.S. pressed to the West and became a civilized race while the East Aryans were slaves of Creation. Some Punjabi men continue to come through getting admitted to the Philippines, and then came the U.S. mainland. In 1913, a federal judge ruled that they could be deported if entering America through this strategy.

17 The Immigration Act of 1917

To forbid people coming from "the barred zone," an imaginary line was drawn across the world to ban certain people from coming to America. The line was from the Red Sea to the Mediterranean, Aegean, and Black seas, through the Caucasus Mountains in Russia and included many other areas in Asia (including for example the Caspian Sea, along the Ural River and then through Ural Mountains.) All people on the east of the line were people in the "Barred Zone." The law actually tried to stop Asian Indians as they could be labeled as Caucasians.

18 Citizenship, Ozawa Case and Caucasian Race

In the Ozawa case of 1922, the Supreme Court had ruled that Japanese were ineligible to citizenship as it was only available for "white person." Ozawa argued that he was a white because he had a fair skin. But the court said that in the1870 statute a white person meant a person of the Caucasian race. Asian Indians were initially pleased by the decision.  Since 1907, about 70 Indians had been granted citizenship by various local legal authorities, though the Justice Department had repeatedly contested the cases. But the lower federal courts insisted that according to the precedent cases of 1910 U.S. vs Balsara and 1913 Akhoy Jumar Mazumdar decisions, which ruled that Asian Indians were Caucasians and thus entitled under the naturalization laws of 1790 and 1875.

19 The Thind Case

In 1923, Bhaga Singh Thind, a Sikh, had been granted citizenship by a federal court in Oregon, but then he was denied citizenship by the Supreme Court. The Supreme court held that the word "white" in the 1870 statute meant "white" in the "understanding of the common man." The Supreme court decided that the 1790 naturalization law meant for immigrants from West and North Europe. The 1870 law included immigrants from all over Europe but Indians not included in the above laws. The 1917 Barred Zone law denied Asian Indian immigration. So Thind lost the case. The case now clearly interpreted the concept of race based nothing but physical features.

20 Return Rate and a Small Community

Between 1920 to 1940, some 3,000 Indian immigrants returned and most left voluntarily though a few hundred were deported. By 1930, the Indian population dropped to 3,130 and by 1940, to 2,405 while about 3,000 Indians illegally emigrated to the U.S. through Mexican boarder. Their Community was small and managed to survive with religion as the unifying element. Most Indian immigrants visited the mosques and temples on holy days; the Sikh Temple in Stockton in North California served as the principal religious and social centers. 

21 Different Ethnicity and Similar Race: Marriage with Mexican Women

Few Indian men brought their wives to America; they remained very isolated in their social life. Such isolation was enhanced by their retention of native customs and dress, especially their turban. California anti-miscegenation law prohibited marriage between different race groups. When a Punjab man had a love affair with a white woman, his white neighbor rusted him out of her house with a shotgun and had him arrested. Marriage with Mexican women also invited attack from Mexican men until it became a accepted pattern. Indian men and Mexican women were different ethnic groups but both belonged to people of color. A scholar tracked almost 400 Asian Indian families before 1946, mostly in the Imperial and Sacramento valleys. Of these marriages, only nine -- fewer than 2.5% -- seem to have been with Asian Indian women. Majority Indians married with women from Mexican or Mexican American migratory worker families, women workers picking cotton on the Indian men's farms. Cotton was the crop that brought the couple together.  Mexican Revolution of 1910 displaced many Mexican families to California and other parts of the Southwest. Picking cotton was a family affair, man, woman and children worked side by side. Back in Punjab, it was the only job for Jat caste woman to work outdoors.

22 Network Marriage and Identity for Children

Marriage of Sikh men and Mexican women was often a tendency for sisters of one family to marry various Indian farm partners. As a result, many household contained related women. Some Indian men still had wives in Indian and sent remittance there. A Mexican father and his 8 children picking cotton for Sikh farmers.  The eldest daughter was courted by one partner, the second by another, and the third by still another. These daughters were at the age of 20, 20, and 17. The men were usually in their late thirties; women involved often arranged their relatives marry their husbands' friends or partners. The children's first names, home language and religion training all reflected the mothers' authority in the domestic realm. Almost all of the children were given Hispanic first names like Jose Akbar Khan or Maria Jesusita Singh. 

=== Liu, TRANSNATIONAL HISTORY OF A CHINESE FAMILY ===

 CHAPTER 4
 Between Troubled Home
 and Racist America
 h
 Sam’s Educational Background
 In June 1915, Sam Chang, Yitang’s eldest son, visited the United States
 as a senior officer of the Guangzhou Police Bureau. Upon his arrival, Sam
 stayed in the New China Hotel in San Francisco for a few months, as he was
 also in charge of supervising the Chinese Exhibition at the Panama
International Exposition. In March 1916, he arrived in Los Angeles to join
 his father, and studied at an English-language school. Then, in the summer
 of 1917, he left for the East Coast and visited New York, Washington, D.C.,
 Philadelphia, and Pittsburgh, as well as Canada, to learn about U.S. and Ca
nadian police systems and facilities.1 This education was the main purpose
 of his trip to America; as a senior police officer on a government mission,
 he did not plan to remain in America as an immigrant.
 Sam was born in 1886, Kaiping County, Guangdong Province. In a letter
 of 1921, he wrote briefly about his educational background:
 From thirteen to fifteen, I studied in the home village. At age eigh
teen and nineteen, I was not in good health and also busy with fam
ily affairs so I did not go to a university. . . . I received some
 education from thirteen to twenty, six years altogether. I had a me
diocre teacher for three years. Then, I learned a lot during the two
 years I studied with my fifth uncle-in-law. I also studied in
 Guangzhou for one year. From six to twelve, I studied Hongpi Shu
 (The Red-Paper Books) at home but my teacher did not even know
 Sishu Wujing (The Four Books and Five Classics). . . . When I was
 age twenty or twenty-one, the Imperial Examination System was
 abolished. . . . Although I liked to read books, I had no friends or
 good teachers who could help me pursue serious academic study. . . .
 70
Troubled Home and Racist America
 71
 I studied business for one year in Hong Kong where they taught me
 only some mathematics and English. Then I studied at the
 Guangdong Police Academy for two years. I also studied medicine.
 After working for the government, I have been very busy and have
 had little time to read books.2
 The books mentioned in Sam’s letter were classic texts used in Chinese tra
ditional schools. The Four Books (Sishu) include The Great Learning, The
 Doctrine of the Mean, The Analects of Confucius, and The Analects of
 Mencius. The Five Classics (Wujing) includes The Book of Songs, The Book
 of History, The Book of Changes, The Book of Rites, and The Spring and Au
tumn Annals. In the rural areas, however, such texts often appeared in cheap
 red paperback editions without annotation, and were accordingly referred as
 “Red Paper Books.” According to the letter, Sam as a rural youth during this
 transitional period still read classic Chinese literature—sometimes with a hired
 teacher at a village school and sometimes simply with a scholarly relative.
 According to another family document, he also had opportunity to study clas
sic Chinese literature with Qu Yuchao (Au Yue Chiu), a famous scholar in
 Guangdong Province. Sam loved writing poetry and composed hundreds of
 poems, though he never published them.3 In addition to learning classical
 Chinese, Sam studied herbal medicine with Guan Chengbi, a famous herb
alist in Guangzhou city.
 Sam did well to adapt himself to a changing Chinese society. As the
 letter indicates, he began to study modern subjects such as English and math
ematics at urban schools when the traditional civil service examination sys
tem was gone. While widely read in Chinese classics like Confucian and Tang
 poetry, and writing classic poems himself, he also had strong interests in the
 writings and ideas of the reformists at the turn of the twentieth century like
 Kang Youwei, and Liang Qichao, or of the later political leaders and literary
 giants like Sun Yatsen, Hu Shi, Chen Duxiu, and Cai Yuanpei, and transla
tions of Western political and literary writings. His family letters also indi
cate that he was well read in Western literature. By this time, many Chinese
 journals and newspapers carried translations of Western fiction and poetry;
 in fact, translation of Western literature became a popular literary genre in
 China at the turn of the twentieth century.
 Sam was married in 1904. His wife, Zhiyuan Cen, was born in 1885
 in Enping County and was one year older than Sam. Cen’s family was much
 wealthier than the Chang family.4 Coming from a rich family, Cen knew how
 to read and write. Since girls’ schools were rare in rural Guangdong when
72
 The Transnational History
 Cen was a child, her family hired tutors at home so that their girls as well as
 their boys could receive an education. Cen was able to write letters to her
 children and relatives when she and they were apart. Sam and Cen married
 young, but they did not have children until seven years later. Their first child
 was born in China in 1910, named Tingxun, and came to America in 1929,
 where he adopted “Tennyson” as his English name. Their second child was
 Yuhua, a daughter born in 1912, who became “Constance” after she came to
 America in 1923. Sam and Cen also had two children who died in infancy.
 Sam decided to stay in America when Yitang requested he help the fam
ily business in Los Angeles. What he probably did not realize was that he
 would stay in the United States for the rest of his life and never have an op
portunity to visit his home country. As a scholarly immigrant, Sam wrote
 many reflections about Chinese life and work in America and numerous let
ters to his children, siblings, other relatives, and friends. He passed away in
 1988 in Los Angeles, at the age of 102. Sam in his lifetime witnessed and
 experienced many stages of the local Chinese community’s development. His
 writing enables us to understand how Chinese immigrants and their family
 members perceived their life in America, what kind of information, emotions,
 and opinions were exchanged among them, and how and why they maintained
 a transnational family life.
 Sam’s knowledge about Chinese culture, his keen interest in current
 events in Chinese society, and his love of China greatly influenced the younger
 generation of the Chang family. He often tutored his American-born and-raised siblings and children in Chinese language, encouraged them to know
 both Chinese and American culture, and advised them to find a career in
 China after completing their college education in the United States. Under
 his influence, many in the younger generation of the Chang family traveled
 back and forth across the Pacific to pursue their education and careers. Ties
 between the Chang family and China were never severed.
 Sam’s Police Career in China
 Sam’s training at the Police Academy in Guangdong came at a critical
 juncture in Chinese society. A modern police system in China did not come
 into being until the late Qing period. Following a memorial by Yuan Shikai,
 the Qing court issued an imperial decree in December 1902 that each prov
ince set up a police bureau after the Japanese model. But the Imperial Court
 did not set up a Police Ministry until 1905.5 Guangdong, however, organized
 its own Central Police Bureau in 1903 in Guangzhou, and divided the city
Troubled Home and Racist America
 73
 into five administrative districts with three thousand police officers.6 The
 Guangdong Police Academy was probably established a few years later. Sam
 attended the Academy around 1910 and graduated in 1912.7 He was among
 the first cohort of police officers in modern China. According to some rela
tives and friends, Sam was one of the best of the Academy’s graduates and
 became a capable police officer in Guangzhou after his graduation.8 How
ever, in his immigration files, the Academy was actually called “Self
Government Reform Association School,” which probably later changed its
 name into Guangdong Police Academy. The “Self-Government Reform As
sociation,” established in 1907, was an elite social organization that consisted
 of senior local government officials and gentry scholars, and played a sig
nificant role in social and political reforms in Guangdong in 1910s as the
 Qing government increasingly lost control of many provinces.9 Sam’s major
 subject was “self-government;” and his “special area” was “police system.”
 Sam “was appointed as a member of the Police Bureau on October 16,1912,
 holding a position defined as police judge who would hear cases and pass
 judgment on offenders. In 1913, he was appointed an official of the second
 class, first section, third district, his commission being signed by the late Com
missioner of Police, Cheng King Wah (Chen Jinghua).”10 Sam was probably
 in charge of one of the five districts in the city.
 Unfortunately, Sam’s police career started in the most turbulent period
 in modern Chinese history. The Qing Dynasty having been immersed in po
litical, economic, and foreign crisis for a long time, its fall was only a matter
 of time. On 10 October 1911, a group of revolutionary-minded soldiers
 launched a sudden revolt in Wuchang, Hubei Province. Shortly after the
 Wuchang Uprising, fifteen provinces in southern and central China declared
 their independence of the Qing court. On 1 January 1912, the Republican
 government was established in Nanjing, with Sun Yatsen as provisional presi
dent.11 Sun did not have a strong and reliable military base. Many of his fol
lowers were opportunists more concerned with personal ambition than with
 the goals of the revolution. The former imperial elites and officials of the
 independent provinces also watched for an opportunity to become local war
lords, rather than being firm supporters of the revolution. Other than in end
ing the Qing dynasty, the Republican Revolution of 1911 was inconclusive,
 and it was weak in many ways.
 In the new Guangdong Republican government, Chen Jinghua, a key
 leader in the Republican revolution, became the superintendent of the police
 department.12 As a professionally trained police officer and a local Cantonese,
 Sam soon became a key senior aid to Chen, who made the police department
74
 The Transnational History
 a powerful and efficient organ of the revolution. During its two-year rule,
 the Republican government carried out reform programs ranging from the
 discarding of the queue to new health and sanitation standards. Policemen
 sometimes forcibly removed the queues of those who did not voluntarily do
 so, and often enforced the new policies that required the registration of doc
tors, medical schools, and midwives, and the segregation of disease carriers.
 Other health measures included barring the collection of human waste dur
ing daylight hours, as many houses had no private toilets and depended on
 nearby farmers to collect their waste at dawn. In the early Republican years,
 theft, opium-smoking, gambling, prostitution, and banditry were common in
 the city. The most difficult task facing the new government was to enforce
 the ban on opium-smoking and gambling, an important source of revenue
 for the Guangdong Government since 1900.13 As Sam described his posi
tion as a “judge in the police department,” his responsibility was probably to
 handle many such judicial affairs.14 Being a senior aide, Sam assisted Chen
 to quickly eliminate much of this crime.
 Sam found it especially difficult to deal with corrupt officials and war
lords. Two examples demonstrate the difficulty faced by Sam as a police of
ficer. In one incident, Sam’s plainclothes agents caught Li Xiuyu,
 superintendent of Guangdong’s head customs office, smoking opium. As Li
 was a high-ranking official, many people interceded on his behalf after his
 arrest. But Sam still fined Li five hundred dollars for illegally smoking opium.
 A second episode involved Sam’s dealings with abusive warlord sol
diers. Yuan Shikai, who betrayed first the Qing court and then the Republi
cans, was China’s strongman during the early Republican days. With his own
 military base in northern China and the support of Western powers, Yuan
 forced the Qing court to give up, then forced Sun to give away the Republi
can presidency. Moreover, Yuan wanted to become the new emperor of China.
 But he needed money to build up his military strength in the north to wipe
 out the Republican forces in the south. In spite of repeated protests by the
 Republicans, Yuan Shikai finally obtained his much-wanted Reorganization
 Loan from the Five-Power International Consortium in April 1913 and was
 ready to confront the revolutionary government in the southern provinces.15
 To avoid a civil war, the Republicans appealed to the Western powers to can
cel the loan. But the foreign consortium paid the money four days after Yuan
 signed the contract. Yuan immediately nominated his own officials in south
ern provinces. In desperation, the Guangdong Republican government de
clared its independence of Yuan’s regime on July 18, and engaged in a civil
 war with Yuan. Lacking financial and popular support, the Republican local
Troubled Home and Racist America
 75
 government collapsed within a month. Yuan appointed Long Jiguang, a war
lord in Guangxi Province, as the new military governor of Guangdong Prov
ince. In August, Long’s five thousand Guangxi troops forced their entry into
 Guangzhou.16 Sam and his police colleagues had a hard time dealing with
 the abusive behavior of Long’s soldiers.
 One of Sam’s poems reflects upon his police career during that period.
 New and fragile the Republic was born.
 Harnessing the lawless became a heavy duty.
 Crime and violence occurred day and night.
 But few fugitives escaped from justice.17
 Sam wrote the following explanatory note to the poem,
 Upon Yuan Shikai’s order, Long Jiguang’s troops entered into
 Guangdong. The troops were abusive. One day the local people were
 so mad that they captured a military rapist and sent him to the Po
lice Bureau for punishment. But the rapist’s fellow soldiers forced
 their way into my office and threatened me at gunpoint. Fortunately
 the Battalion Commander, Feng Baosheng, and his men came to my
 aid and saved me from the danger.18
 Although Sam behaved quite heroically in front of such abuses, the local po
lice force was, generally speaking, helpless when military forces became vil
lainous. Since Guangdong and Hunan Provinces were the hometown of many
 Republican leaders, such as Sun Yatsen, Huang Xing, and Hu Hanmin, Yuan
 Shikai hated these two southern provinces in particular.19 Upon his order,
 the counter-revolutionary revenge was extremely violent in these two areas.
 It was during this period that China witnessed the rise of military
 warlordism.20 Long became an agent of Yuan Shikai and carried out his or
ders to persecute the revolutionaries. His troops marched into Guangzhou,
 removed all the previous Republican reform measures, and canceled
 Guangdong’s autonomy. Chen Jinghua died a mysterious death after Long in
vited him to a dinner. Under Long, none of the new governmental appoin
tees, from the provincial to the district magistrate level, were Cantonese.21
 Sam remained at his police position until he left Guangdong in 1915. There
 is no apparent reason why Long spared him during the purges of 1913. One
 possibility was that he was not a political appointee but a professional po
lice officer. Moreover, when Long took over the provincial government, the
 Guangzhou police and the Guangdong local army were still powerful military
 forces. The local political and military forces wanted to remain autonomous
76
 The Transnational History
 of both the Republicans and Yuan Shikai’s government. While these two armed
 forces were not in active support of the Republicans during the war with Yuan
 Shikai, some local troops did resist Long’s Guangxi army’s invasion of
 Guangdong Province. When Long’s soldiers confronted Sam (in the incident
 here referred to), the Battalion Commander Feng who came to his rescue was
 probably an officer of the Guangdong army. Long Jiguang and Yuan Shikai
 acted skillfully to avoid an open confrontation with the local army, in order
 to win their potential support.
 Although there is no information about how active Sam Chang was in
 Republican politics, it was possible that he knew some of the Nationalist lead
ers at that time. According to one source, Hu Hanmin, a leading Republican,
 recognized Sam’s ability and reputation as senior police officer, and had him
 assigned to a mission learning about police practices in the United States.22
 Hu was the governor of Guangdong from 1911 to 1913, and appointed Chen
 Jinghua as the superintendent of the police department.23 After the Republi
can government collapsed, Hu and all the Republican leaders fled to Japan.
 Even though Sam was a civil service officer rather than a politician, the above
 poem and the incident it describes indicate his anger at the abusive behavior
 of Long’s army. His anger, combined with Long’s attempt to eliminate all lo
cal Cantonese officials, may have contributed Sam’s desire to leave his posi
tion, though he still intended to return and did visit a number of American
 police facilities after he arrived in the United States. The poem and his gov
ernment mission also confirm that Sam was a high-ranking police official in
 Guangzhou. An ordinary police officer would not have had such authority
 even if he wanted to handle some of the tough cases. At Sam Chang’s eighti
eth birthday party, in 1965, several guests spoke highly of his police career
 in their speeches. A few Chinese newspaper articles about him also described
 this period of his life. The guest speakers and newspaper articles especially
 praised Sam’s heroic performance against Long’s troops. In carrying out his
 police duty, Sam did not back off, even when the warlord’s soldiers threat
ened to shoot him.24
 When Sam came to the United States in 1915, his ranking was high
 enough to represent a local Chinese police department in a foreign country.
 His immigration files also indicate that he came to study the police system
 and government management, was financially able to make the contemplated
 trip, and was provided with a draft for fifteen hundred dollars. The photo in
 his immigration files shows Sam in a fashionable suit with a black tie. His
 passport issued by the Guangdong government clearly indicated that Sam was
 not a laborer immigrant, and had a property in Guangzhou worth twenty thou
Troubled Home and Racist America
 77
 sand U.S dollars. In compliance with the 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act, he
 belonged to an exempted class, and his background had been verified and
 certified by the American consul’s office in Guangzhou. The passport also
 noted that he had a scar on his upper lip and a mole on his left check.25 Al
though a Chinese identification document, the passport recorded certain physi
cal features of Sam. This was probably required by the U.S. immigration
 authority to prevent fraudulent use of his identity.
 One year after Sam Chang left Guangdong, Yuan Shikai died in Beijing.
 China reached the zenith of political chaos. Long’s Guangxi soldiers became
 even more abusive toward the Cantonese. According to one account:
 While the soldiers acted cowardly on the battlefield, they acted arro
gantly toward the civilians. . . . Looting, burning, raping, and killing
 were regular features of the conduct of most Chinese soldiers. . . . Al
though provincial troops sometimes committed acts of violence against
 their own people, the most flagrant cases usually occurred when an
 army operated in another province. . . . In Kwangtung during 1919
20, Kwangsi troops also behaved very badly.26
 Under such conditions, it became unlikely that Sam could return and assume
 his previous government position.
 Sam’s Decision to Stay
 In contrast to the chaotic Chinese politics and precarious situation in
 his home village, Sam found, in America his father had established a pros
perous herbal business and had invested in an asparagus farm that had the
 potential to expand. By the time of Sam’s arrival, Yitang had already spon
sored several relatives to California and established a new family. His herbal
 business had several branch offices. During this very busy period, it was natu
ral for Yitang to request Sam to stay and help with the family businesses.
 While the political chaos in Guangdong did not provide a strong incentive
 or good opportunity for a return, Sam’s sense of filial piety to his father, and
 of obligation to the Chang family, were also important considerations in his
 decision to remain in America. Indeed, in the eulogy at Sam’s funeral in 1988,
 a relative recalled Sam’s commitment to his father’s businesses as filial.27
 As Sam had received herbal medical training previously, he first tried
 practicing as an herbalist. In the winter of 1918, he went to Salt Lake City to
 open a branch office of Yitang’s Chinese Herb Company. He brought with
 him a relative who served as his assistant and interpreter. As the Chinese
78
 The Transnational History
 population was less than two hundred in Salt Lake City during that period,
 he mainly targeted non-Chinese patrons.28 He rented a three-room office at
 69 East Second South Street and advertised his business in local newspa
pers. In these advertisements, Sam emphasized that his herbal company had
 existed for eighteen years, with two offices in Los Angeles and another in
 Reno. With some exaggeration, Sam presented himself as one of the former
 leading herbalists in China for the treatment of asthma, blood poisoning, kid
ney and bowel troubles, rheumatism, diabetes, and lumbago. One advertise
ment read, “former sufferers of Utah have prevailed upon us to open a branch
 here, so that their friends could be treated without leaving their business, be
sides eliminating the great expense incurred through travel.”29 Sam’s adver
tisement indicates some of the typical symptoms that Chinese herb medicine
 dealt with in the American West.
 While advertising his business in mainstream American newspapers
 such as The Salt Lake Mirror, Salt Lake News, and Salt Lake Herald, Sam
 also tried to target immigrant communities. One of his promotional pamphlets
 read, “A great many people of all nationalities have tried our natural teas and
 herbs treatment with excellent results.”30 As there were a large number of
 Greek mining workers in Utah, he advertised in a local Greek-language news
paper, Greek Daily.31 He similarly promoted his business in a Japanese
language newspaper published in Los Angeles but distributed in Salt Lake
 City. In this latter newspaper, Sam mentioned that he had experience treat
ing Japanese patients in Los Angeles.
 Unfortunately, Sam’s herbal business was unsuccessful in Salt Lake
 City. The failure of any herbal business in America could be due to many
 factors, including inadequate expertise and business experience as an herb
alist, insufficiently timely supply of herbs, and local attitudes toward the in
fluence of Chinese culture on the local communities. A year later, he returned
 to Los Angeles.
 Yitang then asked Sam to manage the asparagus farm, in which he had
 invested with other relatives, sometime around 1915–16. The farm was about
 twenty-five acres in size, located at 4660 Whitsett Avenue in North Holly
wood. Yitang had previously hired someone else to manage it, but this per
son did a poor job. When he attempted to hire an experienced asparagus
 farmer named Liu Xipu, they could not make a deal as Liu asked for a
 monthly salary of forty dollars—five dollars higher than the norm.32 Thus
 Sam took over the management. Although Sam possessed no farming expe
rience, he was a filial son and was committed and obligated to see the fam
ily business succeed.
Troubled Home and Racist America
 Reunion with Wife and Daughter
 79
 In 1923, Sam bought over his wife, Cen, and daughter Constance, as
 he prepared for a long stay in California. Meanwhile, he had heard that the
 forthcoming 1924 Immigration Act would severely restrict future Asian im
migration to the United States. Even a previously exempted class such as mer
chants and their family members could be denied entry. By the time Sam
 began to arrange for his wife and daughter to come to the United States, the
 racial environment in California was also a serious consideration. Beginning
 in 1919, California witnessed a renewed agitation against Asians. Although
 the racist agitation mainly targeted the Japanese, it affected other Asian groups
 as well. In 1922, Sam began to urge his wife to join him in California, after
 he learned of new anti-Asian laws being proposed in Congress. Meanwhile,
 he planned to sponsor two sons of his second brother Weizong (Zhongping,
 as another name) to America in the names of his own sons. Since Yitang and
 Sam had decided that Weizong should stay behind to take care of family prop
erty in Guangdong, they felt that they should bring some of Weizong’s chil
dren over. While attending school, the boys could also help in the family
 business. However, preparing the immigration papers and coaching for the
 immigration interview was a tedious process during the Chinese exclusion
 period. Upon entering the United States, Sam’s wife and the children could
 encounter all kinds of questions, and be rejected by immigration officers for
 a variety of reasons. In February 1923, Sam wrote to Tennyson:
 You must have received my letter and “coaching paper” for your
 mother, Yuhua, Tingqu, and Tingwei. Ask your mother to memorize
 the content of the papers. Our attorney is a very careful man. He
 used to work at the immigration office in Washington, D.C., and is
 familiar with the immigration process. He has prepared two copies
 of our documents. If the ship company takes away one copy, we shall
 still have another copy for ourselves.33
 Although Tennyson was only thirteen years old, he was the eldest son and
 had responsibility in family affairs, especially when Sam was away. Sam wrote
 most of his letters home to Tennyson. In the letter, Sam did not explain why
 the ship company would take away passengers’ immigration documents. It
 was probably a measure to prevent Chinese passengers from reviewing the
 content of documents during the journey.
 Obviously, the Chang family had created “paper son” slots for Tingqu
 and Tingwei, sons of Sam’s brother. On the immigration papers, the two boys
80
 The Transnational History
 were listed as sons of Sam, and Tingqu became “Tingmao,” the name of Sam’s
 first son, who had died in infancy. In another letter, Sam told Tennyson:
 As Tingqu will come to America in the name of Tingmao, your
 mother will be sad because the name reminds her of our dead son.
 According to Chinese custom, we do not like to mention the name
 of a dead child, as this causes sadness. But in America, . . . after a
 baby child has died, a family, whether Westerners or Chinese, hang
 the child’s picture on the wall. When somebody asks about it, the
 family will explain who the dead is and express their sadness, and
 is willing to talk about the child when visitors ask questions. The
 people seem to have an open attitude toward this matter.34
 As Sam’s wife had been living with Weizong’s family since he had left China,
 Tingqu and Tingwei knew her well. Through some coaching, they were sup
posed to be able to act genuinely as the real sons of Sam and his wife. Ironi
cally, the more closely they feigned, the more pain they would cause in Sam’s
 wife. As the letter indicated, the name “Tingmao” would remind her of the
 real son she lost in the past. In Chinese family culture, the death of family
 members is a sad topic and should not be brought up until absolutely
 necessary.
 Although Sam’s letter constantly compared differences between Chi
nese and American culture and discussed various social issues, ethics, and
 political events, he made no ethical comments on “paper son” strategy. Ob
viously, he did not view this strategy as a deception but as a useful means to
 get family members admitted. When sending for the two sons of his second
 younger brother, Sam simply followed what everybody else did, in the Chi
nese immigrant community, and was mainly concerned about the technical
 aspects of the process. In the same letter, Sam advised his family to purchase
 first-class tickets, to reduce potential harassment. He informed them:
 I hear that the customs staff has changed and the new doctor is very
 harsh on new immigrants and rejects many of them because of liver
 and lung diseases. In the past, people used money to get admitted.
 Now it is difficult. . . . So Yuhua and others should come as soon as
 possible. . . . Several months ago, a young man from Enping County
 came to America. The customs officer asked him if he could read
 and write and if he had been to school. He said yes and so they
 thought he was from a wealthy merchant family and let him in. Yuhua
 should know the importance of claiming herself as a school girl.35
Troubled Home and Racist America
 81
 Here Sam reminded his family that the social status of an immigrant was im
portant. To present themselves as merchant class Chinese, they should use
 first-class accommodations and the kids should claim to be students.
 In another letter, Sam provided more in-depth advice to his family on
 their trip to the United States.
 Recently, many friends told me that the new immigration and cus
toms officers are very strict. In the past, some people could ask our
 counselor or local Western missionary to act as sponsors so that they
 would be allowed to land first and go through the examination later
 on. Now this arrangement is no longer possible. When your mother
 and sister arrive, they will be taken away to the Angel Island immi
gration station for an eye, liver, and lung examination, and could be
 interrogated from two or three days to one or two months. A weak
 nation has no diplomacy to speak of. Coming from a weak nation,
 there is no point buying first-class tickets as you have to go through
 various examinations anyway. Take the second-class tickets and save
 several hundred dollars for other use. The ship will provide meals.
 Second-class accommodations are best on Japanese company ships.
 Four people will share one room that is clean and little different from
 the first class. On the American ships, a dozen people share one
 room, though there is improvement recently. On new ships, second
class ticket passengers will also share a four-people room. It is bet
ter to take an American ship. American customs officers are sensitive
 about American shipping companies’ interest and there is a growing
 hatred for the Japanese in America now.36
 In preparing his family’s trip, Sam kept himself posted on any news regard
ing immigration. Whether the information was about the arrival of new INS
 officers or the differences between taking American and Japanese ships, it
 could have impact on the immigration process that his family had to go
 through. Through such detailed information, the letter psychologically pre
pared his family for a tough interrogation procedure and coached them on
 how to respond to various situations. Even the choice of steamships was an
 immigration consideration for Chinese passengers. Although Japanese ships
 provided better service, the Chang family could not take them because the
 family had to be sensitive to American economic interest and the increasing
 racial resentment against Japanese immigrants in California. As mentioned
 in the previous chapter, Sam used this strategy to win the sympathy of Ameri
can immigration officer in his testimony.
82
 The Transnational History
 Sam’s letter also reflects the national sentiment of Chinese immigrants.
 The key remark is: “Weak nation has no diplomacy to speak of.” Most Chi
nese immigrants were familiar with this phrase as it linked racial practice in
 the United States with international politics. From their perspective, discrimi
nation against the Chinese was mainly due to the fact that China was a weak
 nation. Since the Opium War, this statement became a well-known saying
 among the Chinese when they referred to unequal relations between China
 and the West. As a weak nation, China had to accept whatever foreigners im
posed on her. The West and the imperialist Japan could bully China any way
 they liked—from trade privileges to unequal treaties or an aggressive war.
 When Chinese people went overseas and experienced unequal treatment, they
 believed this was due to the weak international standing of China.
 The most useful immigration strategy for Sam’s family, however, was
 to memorize the family history, so as to pass the interrogation at the Angel
 Island. The rest of Sam’s letter demonstrates to what extent the family mem
bers needed to remember their life history:
 Your mother should discuss it carefully with your twelfth granduncle,
 second uncle, and Uncle Haisheng. According to the coaching pa
per, it will be perfect for your mother, Yuhua, Tingmao, and Tingwei
 to stay in the same room. In the coaching paper, I said Tingwei is
 seven years old. The attorney made a mistake when he wrote six on
 his passport. Our attorney said he would try to do something about
 it. . . . Your mother is from Fu-qing-li. Your maternal grandpa is Cen
 Xuchu. Your mother should say she is illiterate. If they ask why, tell
 them that the countryside is traditional and backward, without a girls’
 school. Yuhua is studying at Cai-zhi-tang School, with an annual tu
ition of ten dollars. Mao started schooling at eight and Wei at seven.
 I have already put this information in the coaching paper. If asked
 why Mao started schooling at eight but Wei at seven, tell them that
 Mao was in poor health at seven and therefore he started one year
 late.37
 According to the letter, every detail matters. Sam’s family members could
 not afford a single mistake, whether about the exact amount of school tu
ition or about why a kid had started school one year late. The interrogation
 was like a psychological game played between Chinese immigrants and im
migration officers. Any hesitation, fear, or inconsistency would cause prob
lems. Two years later, in another letter to a relative, Sam wrote: “I hear there
 is new equipment at the immigration station. There are some wooden pieces
Troubled Home and Racist America
 83
 like majiang game units that the officers will ask you to use to demonstrate
 the layout of your village and what your house is like.”38 While the immi
gration officers attempted to catch every loophole during the interrogation,
 Chinese immigrants, young and old, man and woman, tried to make every
 move correctly.
 To play safe, the immigrants sometimes provided answers to fit a ste
reotype about the Chinese. Sam, for example, asked his wife to say that she
 was illiterate though she was not. Coming from a wealthy rural family, she
 had learned how to read and write with a family tutor. After she arrived in
 the United States, she was able to write letters to her son who stayed behind
 in China, and later to her daughter when she was sent to China again for edu
cation. In a family letter, her son Tennyson (Tingxun) wrote:
 Dear Father and Mother: You must have received the sixth letter of
 mine, dated May 16. No big change has occurred in Tianjin now but
 the school is stopped as the students are uneasy about the war. Sis
ter Yuhua told me that mother has written to us. I did not know that
 mother could write. I thought Yuhua had written for mother in the
 past. Now I read mother’s letter, I find her Chinese writing very
 smooth.39
 To immigration officers, Cen had to lie about this part of her life to fit the
 stereotype that every Chinese woman was illiterate. Interestingly, even her
 own son did not know she could read and write until they were separated
 and had to communicate in writing. In traditional Chinese society, some women
 were literate because their parents hired private tutors at home. Evelyn S. Rawski
 pointed out that “information from the mid- and late nineteenth century sug
gests that thirty to forty percent of the men and from two to ten percent of
 women in China knew how to read and write.” She also noted that the 1896
 census for Hawaii reported 25 percent of the Chinese female immigrants were
 literate. 40 You Chung Hong, an INS interpreter who helped interview many
 Chang family members, once testified in his own immigration matters that
 his mother, an immigrant, could read in Chinese.41
 Son as Partner on Paper
 In order to apply for his wife and daughter, Sam had to reestablish his
 immigration status, from a government visa to a merchant visa. On 6 No
vember 1923, Inspector J. C. Nardini, along with You Chung Hong, then an
 INS interpreter and later a well-known Chinese American civil rights lawyer,
84
 The Transnational History
 interviewed him. As was routine, Nardini began by asking him to list all his
 names. In Chinese family culture, a man could have multiple names—a given
 name in his nuclear family, a generation name used in the clan, a nickname
 employed by his parents and neighbors. Some educated men also had a cour
tesy name for social occasions or scholarly writings. In their interviews, Chi
nese immigrants sometimes listed all the names they had used, and sometimes
 added explanations of each. In his interview, Sam replied to Nardini, “Chang
 Wei, boyhood name; Chang Sue Yick, married name; and Chang Sheong Peoy,
 choice name; no other names.”42
 Sam deliberately withheld “Chang Wee Chee” (Zhang Weixi), his given
 name, as it had already been used by his father to sponsor a relative. When
 he entered America in 1915, Sam presented himself as “Chang Wei” instead
 of “Chung Wee Chee.” He also purposely changed the spelling of “Chung,”
 which is how Yitang spelled his last name, to “Chang.” Obviously he did not
 want to appear related to Yitang when entering as a government official. In
 this interview, Sam’s goal was to present himself as a business partner, rather
 than son, of Yitang.43 By withholding his given name, he could cover his
 real identity. In any Chinese government record on a family, or in a Chinese
 family document such as a genealogy, there is no such a thing as “choice
 name” unless it is an equivalent of the given name; and there is no such cat
egory as “married name” unless it means “courtesy name.” Sam or other im
migrants probably created name categories that sounded familiar to INS
 officers, rather than list their names according to Chinese family culture. In
 Sam’s situation, “Chang Sue Yick” (Chang Siyi) is actually Sam’s courtesy
 name, used on public and social occasions or in scholarly writings or formal
 letters to intellectual or government friends. “Chang Sheong Peoy” (Chang
 Xiangpei) is a name used in his lineage to indicate the rank of his genera
tion. Moreover, “Zhang” was a popular family name in Guangdong, China,
 though some immigrants spelled it “Chang” and others “Chung.”
 When INS officers demanded all names from Chinese immigrants, they
 probably believed that the more information they had, the more easily they
 would be able to find loopholes. However, without an in-depth knowledge
 of Chinese family culture, the officers could only mechanically compare all
 the names in various versions of a testimony. They were not able to discern
 family relationships to tell the true identity of Chinese immigrants, even if
 all names were provided. In Sam’s case, he did provide most of his names,
 but the INS officers still failed to find out who he really was and that he was
 related to Yitang, due to their inadequate knowledge of Chinese culture.
 Even though Sam could cover his true identity in the INS files, using
Troubled Home and Racist America
 85
 a false name was embarrassing and painful for a Chinese immigrant, espe
cially for an educated person like him. Regardless of what he said at the in
terview, Sam continued to follow Chinese family culture and properly use
 his multiple names in his letter writing. He used “Xiangpei” when he wrote
 to his fraternal cousins and uncles. He used “Weixi” when he wrote to his
 brothers. And he used “Siyi” in his letters to friends and intellectual acquain
tances, and signed it as his pen name in the poems and essays written in his
 spare time. Although he presented himself as “Chang Wei” in his immigra
tion files, his family, relatives, and friends never addressed him by that name.
 Naming is an important component of Chinese family culture. Mul
tiple names like Yitang’s and Sam’s reflect social relations in China, and each
 name is meaningful in its own way. While a courtesy name symbolizes re
spect and friendship among friends, a given name embodies affection between
 parents and children. As a name given by his parents and always used in family
 circle, “Weixi” represents a family bond between Sam and his parents and
 siblings. When Sam passed away in 1986, his eulogy used Weixi as his
 name.44 Within the nuclear family, Yitang and his first wife called Sam
 “Weixi,” his second brother “Weizong,” and his third brother “Weiying.”
 Arthur, son of Yitang and Nellie, though born in America, still follows this
 tradition, even in 2004, as his Chinese name is “Weixun.” Wei is the middle
 character in all these men’s given names.
 A clan name represents kinship relationship in an extended family.
 Yitang’s clan name is “Pengbing,” with bing shared by all male members of
 Yitang’s generation. “Yitang,” like “Siyi,” is a courtesy name, meant to be
 addressed within the circle of his elite and educated friends and acquaintan
ces. In the Chang lineage history, Sam’s name was “Xiangpei” with the last
 character pei to indicate the rank of his generation in the clan. Sam shared
 the pei character with all his male cousins, just as Yee Pei, a hired relative in
 the herbal business, was the son of Yitang’s third brother, Xiubing. The char
acter pei indicates that Yee Pei belonged to the same generation as Sam.
 Among the next generation, Sam’s son Tennyson was called Tingxun,
 with ting his generation character. He shared this character with all his male
 cousins. Sam’s daughters’ names all shared yu (which means “jade” and is
 Yook in Cantonese Romanization) as their female generation character. For
 example, Constance’s Chinese name was “Yuhua” while Estelle was called
 “Yuchu” and Joyce was “Yuchzai.” All female members of this generation
 used the yu generation character.
 As name is such an important signifier in Chinese family culture, Chi
nese immigrants sometimes extended the social meaning of a family name
86
 The Transnational History
 and creatively used it to develop and consolidate ethnic networks. Early Chi
nese immigrants usually grouped themselves according to their clan, lineage,
 or place of origin. Clans with large memberships could form associations
 based on real blood relationships, but small clans sometimes banded them
selves on a basis of fictional kinship. For example, there was a Longgang
 Association (Lung Kong) in every major Chinese community, which consisted
 of people who shared the surnames Liu, Guan, Zhang (“Zhang” could be
 spelled as “Chang or Chung”), and Zhao. The relationship among members
 was not based on kinship but derived from a famous legend from the Three
 Dynasty period (220–65). Most Zhang families in the Los Angeles Chinese
 community including the Sam Chang family belonged to this association.
 In the interview, when asked how he became a partner of Yitang’s herbal
 company, Sam replied that he acquired Jung Way Chee’s share for five hun
dred dollars and Jung Chung Jig’s share for five hundred dollars. “Jung Way
 Chee” could be also spelled “Chang Weixi,” and transliterated into the same
 characters in Chinese language. Obviously, this is Sam’s given name, given
 to a person sponsored by Yitang to enter into America. When the officer asked
 Sam if he rendered professional services, Sam replied, “we do not render any
 medical services because we are not licensed to do that under the State laws.”
 Officer Nardini also asked about the major clients of the business. Sam re
plied that the business served “all nationalities.” It is clear that Sam under
stood perfectly the nature of the interview and the restrictions on operation
 of a Chinese herbal business in America. Then the officer questioned Sam
 in detail on the business aspects of Yitang’s company, including the salaries
 of the employees, the monthly rent, the insurance rate, the dividends for both
 active and silent partners, and the supply sources of their herbs. Sam smoothly
 provided all answers.
 At the end of the interview, an INS officer usually asked if there was
 anything more that the interviewee desired to say. Although most people said
 no, to stop short the process, Sam replied:
 I desire that the record be sent to San Francisco without delay. My
 children are very young and not accustomed to be confined by the
 authorities. They sailed third class because they were not able to se
cure second-class accommodation on this particular line. We could
 have done so on the Japanese line, but we didn’t want to do so be
cause that is not patriotic.
 Perhaps Sam’s police background gave him courage and confidence to add
 this explanation of his family’s trip. But his reply informs us how Chinese
Troubled Home and Racist America
 87
 immigrants paid attention to every detail in their immigration process, in
cluding the arrangement of their transportation to accord with the national
istic sentiment of immigration officers. Sam handled the interview well. In a
 note to his testimony, Nardini wrote, “From the appearance and use of the
 Chinese language, according to the interpreter, the witness is undoubtedly a
 high-class Chinese.”45
 Yitang and two Caucasian friends also needed to testify in support of
 Sam in the application process. Yitang testified for Sam on the same day.
 Having testified many times in immigration matters, he was confident and
 smooth in his answers and convincingly assured the INS officer that Sam was
 a merchant and a genuine partner of his herbal business. However, it must
 have been a trying moment when Nardini pointed to the photo of Sam and
 asked who that person was. Yitang provided a short and probably a painful
 answer: “Chang Wei, my partner.” The father-and-son relationship was cov
ered in the short answer. But the mutual obligation and commitment to fam
ily interest was deepened, as both Yitang and Sam understood that passing
 Sam off as “Chang Wei” in the testimony was crucial to the collective inter
est of the Chang family. The officer also asked Yitang to describe how much
 money Sam invested as a partner, what his role was in the business, where
 he ate and slept, how they operated cash flow, and what the previous year’s
 business transaction totals were, as well as what the rent came to, the sala
ries of the partners, the business’s former name and partners, and the loca
tion and exact address of the company. As an extra check on Yitang’s family
 situation, Nardini asked several specific questions on other family members
 and their whereabouts. During the exclusion period, the INS agency was
 deeply suspicious of the Chinese family network. In this case, the officer
 wanted to find out if those still with Yitang were genuine family members.
 As an experienced witness who had probably been interviewed a dozen of
 times by then, Yitang replied readily.
 On the next day (November 7), the INS officer interviewed two white
 witnesses—a Mr. Sollinger and a Mr. Payne. Sollinger was a forty-five-year
old salesman for a tire company and had lived at 1535 East Forty-seventh
 Street for many years. He claimed that he was Yitang’s client, visiting the
 herbal company at least once a month, and had known “Chang Wei” for two
and-a-half years and Yitang for seventeen years. Fully aware of what the INS
 officers wished to know, he testified that the herbalists sold herbs, tea, and
 rice, never performed any manual labor, and never engaged in any “objec
tionable features of restaurant, hotel, lodging, barber, pawn, or laundry busi
ness.” Any form of the work named could be associated with manual labor
88
 The Transnational History
 and cause trouble for the Chang family. Still not satisfied, Nardini categori
cally pressed on: “Are you familiar with the meaning of the word ‘merchant’
 as applied in these cases?” Probably overwhelmed by the question, Sollinger
 said no. The officer explained: “A merchant is a person who buys and sells
 merchandise at a fixed place of business, which business is conducted under
 his own name (or in a firm name in which he may be a member) and while
 conducting said business does not engage in the performance of any manual
 labor except what is necessary to run the business as a merchant. Now, then,
 from your knowledge and observation of Chang Wei for the past year can
 you say that he qualifies as a merchant?” Sollinger’s answer this time was
 far more reserved and cautious: “When I am not there I cannot say what he
 does, but I believe that he devotes his time to that business.” This cautious
 answer reveals the pressure he felt from Nardini’s stern inquiry. But Yitang
 and Sam had to go through numerous such inquisitive interrogations.
 Payne, another middle-aged man, was also a customer who had known
 Yitang over twelve to fifteen years and Sam for three to four years, though
 this was the first time he testified for the Chang family on an immigration
 issue. He easily located the company at 126 West Fourteenth Place, Los An
geles, claiming that he visited them a couple of times a week, or sometimes
 once a month, though he lived in Anaheim in Orange County. He testified
 that Yitang had cured him, his wife, and his children after he switched from
 Dr. Wong, another herbalist. The whole family trusted herbal medicine. As a
 first-time witness, Payne had a couple of slips of the tongue. Several times
 he referred to Yitang as “Dr. Jung Hong.” But when the officer followed up
 and asked, “Did he practice medicine with your family?” Payne, probably hav
ing been coached not to describe Yitang as a doctor, immediately added, “No,
 he simply sold us herbs.” When the officer pointed out Yitang’s photo and
 asked his identity, Payne naturally responded, “He is the doctor.” This was
 how, as a customer, he usually addressed Yitang.
 On the third day, Nardini wrote a two-page detailed report on the en
tire investigation. Among many other things, the report indicated that Sam
 appeared to be a high-class Chinese and well-educated in the Chinese lan
guage. This is probably the key statement, as it confirmed Sam’s class back
ground as a merchant. The report also indicated that Yitang had corroborated
 the statement of “Chang Wei” in every respect. Both white witnesses were
 qualified. In addition to taking the interview testimony, Nardini, accompa
nied by You Chung Hong, the Los Angeles official interpreter, had visited
 the premises of Yitang’s company on 5 November, one day before the inter
view, and found that both Yitang and Sam were there. He noticed no changes
Troubled Home and Racist America
 89
 in the premises since his previous visit. After scrutinizing every detail of the
 Chang family life and business, the officer concluded in the report: “From
 the evidence produced [and] the appearances and demeanor of the witnesses
 there is no question in my mind of the mercantile status of Chang Wei for
 the statutory period and longer.”46
 On 21 November 1923, Sam’s wife Cen (“Som,” in immigration files)
 arrived in San Francisco with their daughter Constance and two boys of Sam’s
 second brother. At the Angel Island Immigration Station, two INS inspec
tors, one stenographer, and a Chinese interpreter made up a Board of Spe
cial Inquiry. During the interviews of the Chang family, this board used three
 interpreters, switching them from time to time. As the INS agency did not
 trust its Chinese staff, it used such a measure to prevent the interpreters from
 possibly aiding the immigrants. The agency interviewed everyone, including
 Sam and his Chinese witness. Both of them came from Los Angeles to San
 Francisco to pick up Cen and the children. For verification purposes, some
 of the questions the agency asked were similar to those that Sam had been
 asked in Los Angeles, as the transcript of that interview had already been
 forwarded to San Francisco on November 8. Most questions, however, were
 different. Sam’s response strategy was straightforward. Regarding his alleged
 parents and his wife’s parents, he simply replied that they had all passed away,
 so that the officers could not test the children about their names, ages, and
 whereabouts. It is very unfilial for a Chinese to say that his or her parents
 are dead when they are still alive. But Sam had to overcome this scruple to
 protect the children’s and family’s interests in the interview. Regarding his
 second brother’s children, Sam insisted that he did not know their names
 and age, as they were all born after he left China. He wanted to maintain
 some flexibility if the family needed to bring other children of Weizong to
 America.
 Sam’s wife Cen handled all the questions well. The board asked about
 ninety questions, and many were in great detail. Over thirty questions asked
 that she describe the location, street number, rooms, or the size of the front
 yard of her house in Guangzhou. One picky question asked her how much
 space there was between the house and the sidewalk. Cen answered all the
 questions readily, and also made sure not to leave any opportunity for the
 officer to test the children with her answers. For example, when the board
 asked her if her children were acquainted with the families of her brothers,
 she quickly replied no. As a mother, she tried to protect the children as much
 as possible in the interview. Having been coached, the twelve-year-old
 Constance answered questions calmly and was able to remember the names
90
 The Transnational History
 of her alleged maternal grandparents. More important, she needed to remem
ber that her father was a business partner, rather than a son, of her grandfa
ther, in immigration papers. However, the board still found discrepancies in
 her answers. The Chinese witness for Sam had testified that he visited the
 family in Guangzhou before their departure. But Constance did not recollect
 any such visit. This minor discrepancy did not escape the keen observation
 of the officers. Fortunately it did not impact the admission negatively. The
 board also asked Constance if she could identify her father’s photograph. The
 question was sneaky and vicious as she was supposed to say yes since this
 was her own father. But the officer challenged her with the fact that she was
 only three years old when Sam left China in 1915. Constance had no way to
 back off and insisted that she remembered seeing him in that year. The of
ficers were not convinced, but let her go anyway.
 As for the ten-year-old Tingqu (the alleged Tingmao) and the eight-year
old Tingwei, the interview process was a real ordeal since they had to pass
 themselves off as Sam’s sons. When asked if his alleged father had any broth
ers or sisters, Tingqu stubbornly relied, “I don’t know.” When asked if he had
 any uncle living in Guangzhou, he again replied, “I don’t know.” When fur
ther asked if he had any cousins living in Guangzhou, he said no. It is not
 clear if he was really confused or if he refused to identify his uncle as his
 father. But when asked if he knew a little boy by the name Chang Tingdong
 (Chang Hing Doong) who was his younger brother and stayed behind in
 China, he surprisingly replied, “he lives on Got Lia Alley, Canton.” When
 asked how he was able to identify his father’s photograph, he bluntly answered,
 “My mother told me.” The response of the eight-year-old Tingwei was even
 more childish. When asked if he knew the names of Chang Tingdong, Chang
 Yupei (Chang Yook Pei), and Chang Yucui (Chang Yook Chew), Tingwai re
plied no to all three names though they were his real brother and sisters. When
 asked who lived on Got Lia Street, he answered the question according to
 the coaching, “My second uncle.” But when the officer asked if he knew the
 names of his alleged second uncle’s children, he listed all the above three
 names.47 Whether out of carelessness or other reasons, the Board amazingly
 let him go.
 Although the Board pointed out some discrepancies, in its summary
 report, it still approved the admission. Sam’s family was fortunate to survive
 the tough interview process. During the Chinese exclusion period (1882
1943), only exempted classes of Chinese, such as merchants and their lawful
 wives and children, government officials and their families, or American-born
 Chinese students, could still be admitted into the country.48
Troubled Home and Racist America
 Cousin Become Son on Paper
 91
 In 1925, an even more challenging family responsibility came to Sam.
 He needed to sponsor his cousin Ruyuan to the United States. Sam had to
 continuously create “paper son” slots for the family immigration. As a pio
neer immigrant of the Chang family, Yitang could use his merchant status to
 sponsor his third son Elbert and two other relatives in the names Weixi (Sam)
 and Weizong (Weizong), as the INS agency recorded that he had three sons
 in China with his first wife. He had also helped Sam to switch his status to a
 merchant though this required he and Sam cover their father-and-son rela
tionship. Now it was up to Sam to use his merchant status to sponsor relatives.
 When Sam first arrived in America, he reported that he had two sons—true,
 though one had died. In 1923, he reported that he actually had three sons,
 one of them born after he left China in 1915. Two sons of his second brother
 used these two son slots in 1923, and there was one slot left, as Sam’s eldest
 son, Tingxun, had not come to America. For the collective interest of the
 Chang family, Sam planned to let Ruyuan, son of Yitang’s twelfth brother,
 use Tingxun’s name on paper. Sam began to discuss this possibility with his
 twelfth eldest uncle as early as 1925. In a letter, he wrote:
 Respectable Uncle:
 I have learned that you went back to the home village for half a year
 and did not return to Hong Kong. I wonder if there were important
 issues you must handle there, as this is really a chaotic period and
 very dangerous to stay in the home village. As for Yuan Brother’s
 coming to America, the new rules still allow children of merchants
 to enter through the customs. But he should be familiar with the
 coaching paper and make a reservation of a ship ticket once he is
 ready. . . . According to the new rules, children of merchants should
 obtain the Chinese passport and the approval of the American Con
sul in Hong Kong. . . . A few days ago, there were about one hun
dred children of merchants arriving in San Francisco by the Lincoln
 ship. They did not have Chinese passports and were still waiting for
 interrogation, according to the new rules. There should not be prob
lems since their documents have the signature of the America con
sul in Hong Kong. However, as the new rules were just issued, the
 immigration officers must be very harsh in interrogation. Brother
 Yuan’s coaching paper is in great detail and, if he memorizes the de
tail, there should not be any problem. Once he makes reservation of
 a ship ticket, please let me know so that I can contact our attorney
 in San Francisco immediately.49
92
 The Transnational History
 In another letter of August, Sam wrote directly to Ruyuan.
 Ruyuan Cousin:
 You should be very familiar with the coaching paper. Now the im
migration officers are very strict. Any mistake will prevent you from
 getting admitted. Yesterday a ship arrived in San Francisco. Six sons
 of merchants applied but only one of them was admitted. The other
 five were denied. I have enclosed this newspaper clipping for your
 reference.50
 To get the approval of the Immigration Bureau, Sam and his wife Cen had
 to appear in the INS office and go through testimony interviews again.
 In a typical testimony interview, the INS officers did not ask questions
 randomly. Their strategies included finding out the true identity of the inter
viewee and exploring all aspects of his/her family including the extended fam
ily, and then grilling the interviewee on minute details about family events
 and residence floor plans. When they got answers, they would compare such
 information with that given by other family members being interviewed. The
 process was always overwhelming. Sam’s interview transcript in 1923 is six
 pages long with over 60 questions, and the transcript in 1926 is seven pages
 long with 174 questions.51 The longer Sam stayed in America and the more
 family members he brought over, the more questions the INS officers would
 have for him. The questioning officer was still Nardini, who interrogated Sam
 in 1923 with the same interpreter, You Chung Hong. Nardini started with ques
tions on the merchant status of Sam and his herbal business, then switched
 to questions on family relationships. Sam again covered his son-and-father
 relationship with Yitang and presented himself as a business partner. How
ever, in responding to questions on his parents, Sam used “Choy Bing,” the
 name of Yitang’s tenth elder brother, as the name of his alleged father.52 The
 character Bing clearly indicated this person was a member of the Chang family
 and belonged to Yitang’s generation, though little information was available
 in Sam’s writings about his life. In the interview, Sam stated that Choy Bing
 passed away when he was fourteen and Choy Bing’s wife died in 1908, which
 could be true—and could also reduce questions from Nardini about those two
 people. Using the life story of diseased family members as the alleged par
ents could be painful but did help Sam, his wife Cen, and other family mem
bers remained consistent in the interviews, as the basic facts were real except
 for the twist in the relationships. Failing to find mistakes regarding Sam’s
 alleged parents, Nardini switched to questions on a diseased daughter of Sam
Troubled Home and Racist America
 93
 and challenged him as to why he did not mention this child and why his wife
 Cen denied her. Sam quickly replied that he wasn’t asked about that girl, and
 that Chinese didn’t want to talk about diseased family members. Then Nardini
 raised questions on the residential floor plan, including where the water well
 was, how deep it was, and whether water was drawn with a pump or a bucket.
 The officer would test Cen on similar questions.
 If Nardini’s questioning of Sam was tough, his interrogation of Cen was
 a torture. It was by no means easy for Cen, as any mistake would not pre
vent passing off this cousin as their alleged son. She had to be thoroughly
 familiar with Yitang’s tenth brother’s family history in the interview, because
 this tenth brother was used as her “paper father-in-law,” and stand firm against
 all questions. Assuming that women were easier to get flustered, Nardini be
gan with a very sexist and intrusive question on a physical feature of Cen,
 “When did you unbind your feet?” He could potentially test Cen’s children
 on her answer. By replying that she could not remember, Cen closed this ques
tion and left no room for Nardini to verify this information with other fam
ily members. The most malicious part of the interview concerned the death
 of Cen’s child. Attacking the vulnerability of a mother’s memory of a dis
eased child, Nardini asked how many of her children had died. Cen replied,
 “I don’t remember those things.” Nardini pressed on: “Your husband answered
 this question and why can you not answer it?” Cen answered, “I don’t want
 to say anything about it.” Then Nardini threatened, “Do you refuse to answer
 that question?” Cen maintained her position: “I am not refusing but these
 things break my heart. I don’t care to remember them.” Nardini callously pur
sued: “Do you remember how many died?” Cen at this point complied: “one
 or two.” Nardini went further, “Boys or girls?” Cen simply said, “Girls.” When
 Nardini wanted to challenge her on this fact and asked,, “Two girls died, then?”
 Cen again refused the question: “I don’t remember.” In reality, Cen could not
 mention the boy who died in infancy, because Tingqu, son of Sam’s second
 brother, had used the dead boy’s name when he came to America with Cen
 in 1923.
 Nardini, however, wanted Cen to acknowledge that the dead children
 were boys. As an INS officer, he did not want to leave any immigration slot
 for boys in a Chinese family profile, because he knew that, during the exclu
sion period, Chinese immigrant families were far more likely to bring boys
 than girls to America. While painfully responding to Nardini’s inquiry, Cen
 did not neglect her obligation to protect the family secrets and insisted that
 the diseased children were girls. She boldly fought back when she felt
 Nardini’s interrogation threatening her children and the family interest, and
94
 The Transnational History
 courageously resisted a psychological attack on her cultural sensibility as a
 Chinese immigrant woman. Her firm attitude somehow persuaded the officer
 to switch to another topic. Nardini’s questions on the well in the house were
 offensive but funny. He did not seem to believe that Chinese people in
 Guangzhou (Canton) had already used running water, asking Cen, “Have you
 got running water in the house?” The reply was yes. He then ridiculously
 asked if the running water came from a well in the house, and the answer
 was, of course, no. He further asked if Cen had ever used the well. When
 Cen said no again, he was probably at a loss and demanded, “Why not?” Cen
 told the officer, “The old people used to use that well, but we never used it.”
 At this point, it is not even clear if the officer was still questioning Cen for
 facts or merely pressuring her to give an inconsistent answer. Cen’s calm at
titude, firm position, and courage to refuse certain questions demonstrate how
 Chinese immigrant women confronted the unsympathetic INS officers, calmly
 handled interrogation, and courageously defended family interest. Surpris
ingly, Nardini’s impression of Sam and Cen was very positive, as he wrote at
 the end of the interview record, “Demeanor of both witnesses very favorable.”
 In his separate report, Nardini also wrote:
 I visited the place on the 17th instant with Interpreter You Chung
 Hong of this office and found it to be free from objectionable fea
tures and an old-fashion[ed] residence building fast disappearing
 from the business section of the city. The families of the alleged fa
ther and the manager reside there. One of the rooms is devoted for
 the storage and curing of herbs and one for general consultation, it
 appearing that they cater quite extensively to the white trade. The
 words “Chinese Herb Company, Y. H. Chung, manager” appear in
 gold lettering on the front window. The alleged parents made a very
 favorable impression, answering all the questions readily and sin
cerely. They immediately recognized the photo of applicant (marked
 “No. 4”) as appearing in the group of five furnished by the San Fran
cisco office.
 As a dutiful officer, Nardini observed not only that Caucasians were Yitang’s
 major clients but also details such as the gold lettering of Yitang’s store’s name.
 This “big brother” type of inspection illustrates how closely Chinese Ameri
can families and businesses were under surveillance by the INS.
 Interestingly, Sam and Cen’s interview transcripts have also left us with
 a detailed picture of their life in Guangzhou. They lived in a big brick house
 with two parlors, four bedrooms, a kitchen downstairs, and one bedroom and
Troubled Home and Racist America
 95
 a parlor upstairs. They had two servants; one was Ah Ho, a “slave girl” or
 mui tsai whom they had purchased ten years before. Mui tsai means “little
 sister” in Chinese, and existed in Guangdong as a bond-maidservant system
 for a long time. Girls born to impoverished families were purchased by rich
 families as unpaid domestic servants until they reached marriage age. Then
 they would either be married off by the master family or become concubines
 in the family. Another servant was a middle-aged woman, Ah Som, who was
 already married and was paid monthly as wage help. They had running wa
ter but no electricity. They used kerosene lamps for light. Opposite the house
 was a temple, and a short distance away were a Baptist missionary school as
 well as a couple of regular public schools. The street they lived on also had a
 number of stores and the road was paved with white stone. The length of the
 street was about one block of an average Los Angeles street. When they trav
eled abroad, they used a rickshaw to go to the pier and then took a boat from
 Guangzhou to Hong Kong, from which they booked a ship to the United
 States.
 Troubled Home
 Although his wife and daughter joined him, Sam did not view the
 United States as his permanent home. Nor did he give up his intention to go
 back to China someday. In a letter to his second brother, he writes,
 If you come to America, you could come for a visit and then travel
 to see Europe. But you should return and find a government posi
tion in the North and stay away from Guangdong politics. . . . It is
 not wise for all of our four brothers to stay in this country. Some
one should stay in China and take care of things there, so that we
 can go back when we need to develop our careers there. America is
 not our home, anyway. China has vast lands, though it is still back
ward in transportation and politics and has failed to be a strong coun
try. In America, you can make a high salary, but everything is
 expensive here, too. Even if you can make one or two hundred dol
lars a month, it is still not enough for a large family. After I make
 enough money, I will go back to China and look for opportunities
 there.53
 With his education and police officer’s background, Sam probably still hoped
 to pursue a government position in China. If Yitang viewed his migration to
 America as a way to further expand his herbalist business and career, Sam
96
 The Transnational History
 regarded his stay in America as a way to assist his father and help the family
 business. He was a very educated person, but immigration often meant down
ward mobility for educated people. The more educated an immigrant was,
 the more disappointed he or she probably became, as professional jobs were
 usually not available for educated immigrants. Sam was not very enthusias
tic about becoming a farmer in America after a promising police career in
 China, yet family interest obliged him to stay and assist his father in the family
 farming business. On the other hand, he may not have been too eager to go
 back to Guangdong at a time when his home village was experiencing bitter
 lineage politics and family feuds, and when China was witnessing increas
ing political chaos.
 In Sam’s correspondence with his relatives in China, we find several
 tragic episodes in his home village resulting from bandit attacks. In a 1922
 poem, Sam Chang wrote:
 Chaotic is our hometown and rampant the bandits.
 Mention no Cattle Hill Village again,
 as looting and killing is always the news.
 To ransom the father, the folks sell the son.
 In a supplementary note, he explained: “Our clan has recently been attacked
 four times by bandits. Five people were killed and eleven were kidnapped.
 One family had to sell their son in order to ransom the father.”54
 While Sam was in California, social order was deteriorating rapidly in
 rural Guangdong. Some local tyrant clans and evil gentry, acting like ban
dits, used violence to accumulate power and wealth. The situation reflected
 in the above poem is a case in point. Sam’s home village, Niushan (Cattle
 Hill), was always on alert against the bandits from Hushan (Tiger Hill) Vil
lage. The Tiger Hill bandits were probably simply more powerful and tyran
nical neighbors, who wanted to prey on weaker and smaller neighboring clans
 or villages during this chaotic period.
 Since Sam had worked for the Police Bureau and his second brother
 worked for a local court, the Nine Families often requested they use their
 government connections to deal with bandit attack. In response to his rela
tives’ request to use such connections, Sam wrote:
 I have learned that our home village has been attacked again. Twelve
 people were kidnapped, among whom were Dapei’s wife and Nephew
 Chong. Uncle Libing’s wife managed to escape from being kid
napped. The bandits were so rampant, and I really feel very angry
Troubled Home and Racist America
 97
 about it. Zhaopei wrote to me and requested Zhiqing to arrest the
 father and the son of the Tiger Hill clan. But I don’t think Zhiqing
 has the power to do so. It will also give them an excuse to seek more
 revenge. In my opinion, you should submit a petition with the list
 of the kidnapped to the county magistrate and indicate where the ban
dits hide. This Magistrate Huang used to be a chief editor of a news
paper in San Francisco, and we have met each other once. If we turn
 to him for help, he may be able to do something.55
 Sam Chang’s letter indicates that his home village was far from being a safe
 place. Banditry was a problem beyond his control. His second brother was
 sometimes directly involved in fighting against the bandits. Several times,
 when assistance from local government troops was available, his brother
 Weizong guided the army to fight the bandits. In 1922, after reading a letter
 from his brother, Sam wrote:
 I have read Brother Zhongping’s [Weizong’s] letter about the ban
dits and seen how thin and exhausted he looks in the photo. After
 guiding the army to fight against the bandits, my brother’s hair all
 turned white. He also coughed blood. I could not fall asleep and have
 composed the following poems.
 Tough is your double responsibility
 Suppressing the bandits and protecting the kin.
 In five years of fighting,
 My brother has gone through fire and water.
 In an explanatory note, he wrote: “My brother has led troops to search and
 fight bandits for several times. The battle was fierce.”56
 As Sam knew that neither military suppression nor legal punishment
 by the local authorities could completely remove the banditry problem, he
 advised Weizong to stay away from the village. Sam gave the following advice:
 Yesterday, I received a letter from Lipei saying you would go back
 to the home village. . . . Whenever you go on a trip there, father and
 I are worried. It is too unstable to stay there. . . . You must always
 keep in mind that we are a weak family branch. Stay away from the
 lineage affairs as much as possible. Keep a low profile. It is a trag
edy that strong sibling families bully the weak sibling families within
 the wufu [five mourning grades in a lineage]. . . . Remember how
 Dapei was killed, how a servant girl was kidnapped, how our property
98
 The Transnational History
 was looted, and how a hundred clan members had to flee before that
 criminal was sentenced to death.
 Sam was pleased to hear that the local government had already executed the
 bandits who helped the Three Families. But other bandits were still around.
 He went on to write:
 But you still have to be careful. . . . In my observation, the decline
 and the final dissolve of our family cannot be helped. The longer
 you stay in the home village and Guangdong, the more deeply you
 will get yourself involved in family affairs. . . . That is not good.
 Don’t worry too much about getting back the money we lent to oth
ers. Just try to get what you can. America lent millions of dollars to
 European countries in the European War and did not get back any
thing so far. Although our family is poor, we still have something to
 eat. The money will be paid back eventually. . . . We can use the
 money and land to build a school for the children of the poor fami
lies, such as Li, Qi, Chen, and Liang. We can help eight to ten chil
dren every year by paying their tuition with the rice rent, in the name
 of our father and grandfather, and make a record of it so that people
 will remember their names. . . . Father hopes that we brothers live
 away from the home village and keep ourselves safe from the mur
derous hands. At the moment, I am practicing shooting skills to pro
tect myself. If you can get a license, you should buy a gun to protect
 yourself. You only need to go back to the home village on two occa
sions—to sweep the graves of Grandmother and Mother. Otherwise
 we brothers should never return to the Five Cattle Hill.57
 As the letter indicates, Sam had no hopes of getting back the Chang family
 property owned in the home village. He did not even expect to get back the
 money that Yitang loaned the Nine Families. Faced with a precarious situa
tion, Sam advised his second brother to bear arms on his visit to the home
 village if he intended to collect rent. However, Sam still cherished his home
 village at heart because it was his birthplace and his grandmother and mother’s
 tombs were there.
 In the same year, Sam also wrote to his son and described the suffer
ing of the home village from the bandits’ attack, and the hard job his second
 brother had in taking care of the family property there:
 In the last six years, our clan has been frequently attacked by ban
dits. More than a hundred of our folks fled to the city. Many were
Troubled Home and Racist America
 99
 killed; and many died of illness and poverty. Your uncle has a heavy
 burden to handle everything by himself—dealing with the bandits,
 taking care of those who have passed away, the land and housing
 property.58
 In explaining the situation in his hometown, Sam urged his son to go north
 for his college education and not to get involved in family conflicts. Given
 the chaotic situation in rural Guangdong at that time, neither Sam nor Yitang
 wanted to go back and make use of their family properties in the home vil
lage. Both Yitang and Sam moved from the village, to live in Guangzhou City,
 before traveling to America. After their own wives and children joined them
 in America, and their herbal and farming business became an important in
come source, they gradually distanced themselves from the lineage affairs
 back home. As Sam said, the only business they had to do with the home
 village was to sweep their ancestor’s tombs. Their attachment to the home
 village gradually became more symbolic than real. When social instability
 in China and a hostile racial environment in the United States prevented Yitang
 and Sam, as first generation immigrants, from developing a sense of roots
 on either side of the Pacific, family reunification, safety, and well-being, along
 with the education of the second generation became a focal point of their
 social existence