The designation 
The designation 
T Native American, which 
includes the greatest number of ethnic 
T includes the greatest number of ethnic 
Tgroups of any minority population in 
Tgroups of any minority population in 
T
 t
 he United States, is a term for the indigenous 
people of the Americas. It is used for both 
American Indians and Alaska Natives, who 
are comprised of American Indians, Inuit, and 
Aleut. Each of the approximately 400 Ameri
can Indian and Alaska Native nations has its 
own distinct cultural heritage.
 CHAPTER
 5
 complete disappearance of many traditional 
foods and food habits (Figure 5.1). This chap
ter reviews both the past and present diet of 
Native American ethnic groups.
 Cultural Perspective
 History of Native Americans
 Over 5 million persons of Native American 
heritage lived in the United States in 2009, 
according to U.S. Census figures, represent
ing 2 percent of the total population.1 The 
vast majority of American Indians and Alaska 
Natives today live west of the Mississippi 
River. Roughly half live in rural areas, either 
on government reservations or on nearby 
farms. Native American ethnic identity varies 
tremendously, from tenacious maintenance 
of heritage to total adoption of the majority 
culture.
 Traditional Native American foods have 
made significant contributions to today’s diet 
in the United States. Corn, squash, beans, 
cranberries, and maple syrup are just a few 
of the items Native Americans introduced 
to European settlers. Historians question 
whether the original British colonists would 
have survived their first years in America 
without the supplies they obtained and the 
cooking methods they learned from the Native 
Americans. The diet of Native Americans has 
changed dramatically from its origins, yet 
recent renewed interest in American Indian 
and Alaska Native culture has prevented the 
Settlement Patterns
 It is hypothesized that the Native Ameri
cans came to North America approximately 
20,000 to 50,000 years ago across the Bering 
Strait, which links Asia to Alaska, although 
some evidence suggests earlier migrations 
may have occurred. Archaeological research 
provides little insight into the settlement pat
terns and diversification of Native American 
culture in the years before European contact 
in the 1600s. Furthermore, the Native Ameri
can languages were entirely verbal, so writ
ten historical records are nonexistent. There 
are, consequently, enormous gaps in what is 
known of early Native American societies.
 Observations of Native Americans by 
white settlers have been well documented. 
These commentaries identified three major 
centers of American Indian culture during 
the seventeenth century. In the Southeast the 
sophisticated social organization of the Cher
okees, Chickasaws, Choctaws, Creeks, and 
Seminoles led the Europeans to call them the 
“Five Civilized Tribes.” The Iroquois, in what 
is now New York State, ruled a democratic 
confederacy of five nations. Religion and the 
It has been suggested 
that native Hawaiians 
be included as Native 
Americans; however, 
the history and culture 
of these peoples are 
substantially different 
from those of Native 
Americans of the U.S. 
mainland, Alaska, and 
Canada, so they are 
discussed in Chapter 12, 
“Southeast Asians and 
Pacific Islanders.” Native 
American cultures of 
Mexico, Central America, 
and South America are 
considered in Chapters 9, 
“Mexicans and  Central 
Americans” and 10, 
“Caribbean Islanders and 
South Americans.”
 The U.S. Census uses 
the phrase “American 
Indians and Alaska 
Natives” (abbreviated 
AI/AN), and notes that 
approximately 15 per
cent of this  population 
is also of  Hispanic 
ethnicity.130
 Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
NATIVE AMERICANS
 Marilyn Angel Wynn/Getty Images
 ▲ Traditional Native 
American foods: Some typical 
foods include beans, berries, 
corn, fish, jerky, maple syrup, 
squash, and tomatoes.
 Figure 5.1
 Native food circle: Choices 
for a healthy lifestyle.
 Source: Great Lakes Inter-Tribal 
Council, Inc., Lac du Flambeau.
 arts flourished in Pueblo communities adja
cent to the Rio Grande and Little Colorado 
Rivers in the Southwest.
 The introduction of horses, firearms, and 
metal knives changed the lifestyles of many 
nations, especially those that used the new 
tools to exploit the resources of the Great 
Plains. This initial interaction between white 
settlers and Plains Indians resulted in the 
development of the stereotype of the buffalo
hunting horseman with feathered headdress 
who came to represent all American Indian 
ethnic groups. European diseases and the 
massacre of whole nations reduced the num
bers of both Native American individuals and 
ethnic groups. In addition, many American 
Indians were forced to migrate west to accom
modate white expansion. The hardships of 
involuntary relocation and the deaths caused 
by illness and assault may have caused the 
extinction of nearly one-quarter of all Native 
American ethnic groups.
 Native American lands dwindled as 
white settlers moved westward. By the late 
nineteenth century, the majority of Native 
Americans lived on lands held in trust for 
them by the U.S. government, called federal 
reservations. Still others resided in state res
ervation communities. Although they were 
not required by law to live on reservations, 
there were few other viable Native American 
communities.
 The Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) took 
over the administration of the reservations 
near the turn of the twentieth century. It 
established a program of cultural assimilation 
designed to bring the Native American resi
dents into mainstream U.S. society. Before the 
1930s, Native American children were sent 
to off-reservation boarding schools where 
white values were encouraged. Later, public 
reservation schools attempted similar indoc
trination. The BIA program usually failed to 
force Native Americans to accept white val
ues, however. The Native Americans changed 
their dress, occupation, and social structure, 
but they did not fully assimilate. In many 
cases their religious beliefs were strength
ened, and their involvement in crafts, music, 
and dance was deepened to support their 
ethnic identity.
 Current Demographics
 Many Native Americans left the reservations 
for the employment opportunities available 
during World War II. Some joined the armed 
services, where they became fluent in English 
and the ways of the majority society. Others 
Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
Indian Reservations in the Continental United States
 CHAPTER 5
 Figure 5.2
 took war-related industry jobs. In the 1950s 
and 1960s, the BIA Employment Assistance 
Program was a major factor in the continu
ing out-migration of Native Americans from 
the reservations to the cities. By 2000, two
thirds of all American Indians and Alaska 
Natives resided in the farms, towns, and urban 
areas outside of reservations (Figure 5.2). 
More recent statistics indicate that 60% live 
in metropolitan areas.2,3 Among the states, 
California has the highest number of resident 
American Indians (fewer than 700, 000), fol
lowed by Oklahoma and Arizona. In 2009, 
the largest ethnic groups within the states of 
Alaska, Montana, North Dakota, Oklahoma, 
and South Dakota were Alaska natives and 
Native Americans/American Indians.2
 urban Native Americans maintain close ties 
with the reservation of their ethnic group and 
travel often between the city and tribal land. 
Members of the second generation living in 
urban regions are more likely to think of the 
city as their permanent home.
 Courtesy of National NAGPRA
 Location of Native American 
nations in the continental 
United States.
 Source: Adapted and reprinted by 
permission of the publisher from 
Socioeconomic Status
 Large, urban Native American popula
tions are found in Los Angeles, New York 
City, Phoenix, Tulsa, Anchorage, Oklahoma 
City, Albuquerque, and Tucson. The remain
der of the American Indian and Alaska Native 
population resides in rural areas, including 
reservations where approximately 1.9 mil
lion individuals reside. Many first-generation 
The socioeconomic status of Native Americans 
declined drastically with the forced migra
tions of the nineteenth century. Even those 
Native American nations that were agricul
turally self-sufficient suffered when relocated 
to regions with poor growing conditions. 
Further, there were few native occupations 
that were valued in the job market outside the 
reservations. BIA education efforts were gen
erally unsuccessful, and most Native Ameri
cans did not begin to find employment until 
World War II and the development of the BIA 
Employment Assistance Program. The Indian 
Self-Determination and Education Act of 1975 
was enacted to promote Native American 
participation in government and education 
but economic improvement continues to be 
Harvard Encyclopedia of American 
Ethnic Groups edited by Stephan 
Thernstrom, Ann Orlov, and Oscar 
Handlin, p. 61, Cambridge, Mass.; 
The Belknap Press of Harvard 
University Press, Copyright © 1980 
by the President and Fellows of 
Harvard College.
 During the early nine
teenth century, the 
Cherokee had a written 
language, a bilingual 
newspaper, a school sys
tem, a court system, and 
a Cherokee Nation con
stitution.131 They were a 
prosperous tribe; many 
owned black slaves.
 Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
NATIVE AMERICANS
 slow. Approximately 26 percent of American 
Indians and Alaska Natives work in man
agement and professional occupations.3 The 
Apache and Dakota have been active in ranch
ing and are known for their expertise in the 
rodeo circuit.4,6 In the Southwest, small-scale 
agriculture and livestock grazing are still 
important among some Hopi, Pueblo, and 
Navajo peoples; and traditional crafts such 
as weaving, pottery, and silversmithing are 
significant.7,8,9 Some Alaska Natives combine 
part-time paid employment with subsistence 
living and often find jobs in the fishing and 
forestry industries.10,11,12
 The overall poverty rate for Native Ameri
cans (nearly 26 percent) in 2012 was more 
than double that of the general popula
tion; however, significant tribal differences 
are seen. The median family income for 
American Indian and Alaska Natives in 2012 
was $37,353. Most Alaska Natives have rates 
somewhat higher than the U.S. average (15 to 
23 percent), while poverty levels among the 
Apache, Navajo, and Sioux approached or 
exceeded three times the national rates (34 to 
39 percent). In 2012, 82 percent of American 
Indians and Alaska Natives over 25 years of 
age have at least a high school diploma. Seven
teen percent of American Indians and Alaska 
Natives have at least a bachelor’s degree, and 
6 percent have an advanced graduate degree.1
 Native American Organizations
 Efforts to increase pros
perity on reservations 
include utilization of 
natural resources and 
establishment of gam
bling operations, which 
are legal on tribal lands.
 Few Native American neighborhoods develop 
in urban areas. Native Americans who settle 
in the cities usually arrive as individuals or 
small family groups and typically do not live 
near others of their nation. Sometimes long
time city residents exhibit a sense of superior
ity over recent arrivals from the reservations. 
In general, the difficulties of adjusting to 
urban white society stimulate many young 
Native Americans to identify not only with 
Native Americans of other nations but also 
with people from other ethnic groups.
 Activists for Native American rights often 
come from the cities and are not always sup
ported by Native Americans who live on tribal 
lands. Native American organizations have 
done much to maintain Indian identity. Most 
areas with large Native American populations 
have their own clubs and service associations. 
Organizations to promote ethnic identity 
have been founded by the Navajo, Pueblo, 
Tlingit, Haida, and Pomo. Other groups such 
as athletic clubs and dance groups serve the 
social needs of the pan–Native American 
community.
 Worldview
 Harmony best describes the Native American 
approach to life. Each individual strives to 
maintain a balance among spiritual, social, 
and physical needs in a holistic approach. 
Only what is necessary for life is taken from 
the natural environment; the belief is that the 
Earth should be cared for and treated with 
respect. Generosity is esteemed and competi
tiveness is discouraged, yet individual rights 
are also highly regarded. Personal autonomy 
is protected through the principle of noninter
ference. Among the Navajo, for example, an 
individual would never presume to speak for 
another, even a close family member. For most 
Native Americans, time is conceptualized as 
being without beginning or end, and the cul
ture is present oriented, meaning that the 
needs of the moment are emphasized over the 
possible rewards of the future.
 Religion
 Traditional Native American religions vary 
from an uncomplicated belief in the power of 
a self-declared evangelist to elaborate theo
logical systems with organized hierarchies 
of priests. Yet they all share one characteris
tic: The religion permeates all aspects of life. 
Rather than a separate set of beliefs practiced 
at certain times in specific settings, religion is 
an integral part of the Native American holis
tic worldview. Religious concepts influence 
both the physical and emotional well-being 
of the individual.
 Many Native American nations have 
rejected all attempts at Christian conver
sion, especially in the Southwest. The 
Navajo, Arizona Hopi, Rio Grande Pueblo, 
Potawatomi, Lakota, and Dakota have 
retained most of their native religious val
ues and rituals, such as sweat lodge purifica
tion rites. Other religions unique to Native 
Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
CHAPTER 5
 Americans emerged after European con
tact, such as the Drum Dance cult and the 
Medicine Bundle religions, which combine 
spiritual elements from several different 
ethnic groups. A Paiute visionary, Wovoka, 
founded the Ghost Dance religion in the late 
1880s, which prophesied an end to white 
domination through prayer, abstinence 
from alcohol, and ritual dancing.13 In addi
tion, religions mixing Christianity with tra
ditional beliefs have been popular since the 
late nineteenth century; the Native Ameri
can Church has been especially successful. 
Other groups claim Christian fellowship but 
continue to practice native religions as well. 
Finally, many Native Americans now adhere 
to Roman Catholicism or some form of Prot
estantism, especially in urban areas where 
churches have been established to serve all 
Native American congregations. In Alaska, 
some Alaska Natives have become adherents 
of Russian Eastern Orthodoxy.
 Family
 The primary social unit of Native Americans 
is the extended family. Children are valued 
highly, and there is great respect for elders. 
All blood kin of all generations are consid
ered equal; there is no differentiation between 
close and distant relatives. Aunts and uncles 
are often considered like grandparents, and 
cousins are viewed as brothers or sisters. Even 
other tribal members are sometimes accepted 
as close kin. In many Native American societ
ies an individual without relatives is consid
ered poor.
 Many Native American nations are matri
lineal, meaning that lineage is inherited from 
the mother. Traditionally, property was often 
passed down through women in these tribes, 
and decision making often rested with an 
elder woman in the family.14,15 Today, even in 
matrilineal systems, the men are the family 
providers and heads of the household; women 
are typically in charge of domestic matters. 
Due to the respect for the individual within 
most Native American groups, men and 
women hold equal standing. Native American 
children are expected to assist their parents in 
running the home.
 Traditional Health Beliefs and Practices
 In Native American culture, health reflects 
a person’s relationship to nature, broadly 
defined as the family, the community, and the 
environment. Every illness is due to an imbal
ance with supernatural, spiritual, or social 
implications. Treatment focuses on the cause 
of the imbalance, not the symptoms, and is 
holistic in approach. The sick individual is at 
odds with the universe, and community and 
family support is focused on restoring har
mony, not curing the disease.16 As explained 
by the Cherokee medicine man, Sequoyah, 
“Indian medicine is a guide to health, rather 
than a treatment. The choice of being well 
instead of being ill is not taken away from an 
Indian.”17 Traditional Native American medi
cine is concerned with physical, mental, and 
spiritual renewal through health maintenance, 
prevention of illness, and restoration of health.
 Many causes account for illness. Some 
Navajo believe that witchcraft, through agents 
such as animals, lightning, and whirlwinds; 
transgressions committed at ceremonial occa
sions; or evil spirits (especially ghosts) may 
cause fainting, hysteria, or other conditions. 
Witchcraft may also take the form of insidi
ous objects, causing pain where the object is 
inserted, as well as emaciation. Possession by 
a spirit may dislodge the soul, resulting in a 
feeling of suffocation (or possession may be a 
sign of a gift for healing). Soul loss may also 
cause mental disorders. Violation of a taboo, 
▲ The primary social 
unit of Native Americans 
is the extended family, 
which includes all close 
anddistantkin.
 Hill Street Studios/Blend Images/Newscom
 Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
NATIVE AMERICANS
 whether an actual breach by an individual 
or contact with evil objects that have com
mitted mythical breaches, results in general 
seizures.18,19 Traditionally, these beliefs are 
shared by many other Native Americans as 
well. For example, some Iroquois believe in 
a similar list of reasons for illness, adding 
that unfulfilled dreams or desires may also 
be a contributing factor,20 and some Inuit 
believe sleep paralysis occurs when the soul 
is attacked by malevolent spirits or through 
witchcraft.21
 Some Native Americans reject the concept 
that poor nutrition, bodily malfunctions, or 
an infection by a virus or bacteria can cause 
sickness. An evil external source is often 
identified instead. Some Dakota, for instance, 
blame type 2 diabetes on disease-transmitting 
foods provided by whites with the intention 
of eliminating all Native Americans.22 An 
outbreak of serious respiratory infections due 
to the Hanta virus was explained by Navajo 
healers as being due to rejection of traditional 
ways and adoption of convenience foods.23
 Some Native Americans attribute alcoholism 
to soul loss and the cultural changes due to 
domination by white society.15
 Small bags of herbs (called “medicine 
bundles” by certain Plains Indians), fetishes, 
feathers, or symbols may be worn to protect 
against malevolent forces. Fetishes are used 
when an animal that has been harmed or 
killed causes an ailment; a fetish in the form 
of the animal is rubbed on the afflicted body 
part with appropriate chants.
 Traditional healers often specialize in their 
practice. Navajo medicine men and women 
usually exert a positive influence in preventing 
disharmony through rituals such as the sweat 
bath to promote peace. They also have nega
tive powers, which can be used to counteract 
witchcraft or evil acts by a person’s enemies. 
Diagnosticians may be called on to identify 
the cause of an illness through stargazing or 
listening (if crying is heard, the patient will 
die). Hand motions or trembling also may 
be involved, sometimes including painting 
with white-, blue-, yellow-, and black-colored 
sand to produce a picture of magical healing 
power. Other traditional Navajo practitioners 
are singers, who cure with sacred chanting 
ceremonies, and healers, who have specific 
responsibility for care of the soul. Among the 
Oneida, dreamers have the ability to see the 
future and diagnose illness.24 In many Native 
American groups, herbalists, often women, 
assist in the treatment of illness through the 
ceremonial collection and application of wild 
plant remedies.25 (See “Therapeutic Uses of 
Food” later in this chapter for examples.)
 Among California Native Americans, ill
ness was treated first with home remedies. If 
that proved ineffective, non-sacred healers 
such as herbalists or masseuses were con
tacted. If the patient still did not improve, 
a diviner would be consulted for a diagno
sis. If spiritual or supernatural intervention 
was needed, a shaman (medicine man) was 
employed. Consultation with native healers 
is often concurrent with seeking Westernized 
health care.15,26,27
 Traditional Food  
Habits
 The traditional food habits of Native Ameri
cans were influenced primarily by geog
raphy and climate. Each Native American 
nation adopted a way of life that allowed it to 
maximize indigenous resources. Many were 
agriculturally based societies, others were pre
dominantly hunters and gatherers, and some 
survived mainly on fish. Most of each day was 
spent procuring food.
 Ingredients and Common 
Foods
 Indigenous Foods
 Archaeological records and descriptions of 
America by European settlers indicate that 
Native Americans on the East Coast enjoyed 
an abundance of food. Fruits, including blue
berries, cranberries, currants, grapes, per
simmons, plums, and strawberries, as well as 
vegetables, such as beans, corn, and pumpkins, 
are mentioned by the New England colonists. 
They describe rivers so full of life that fish 
could be caught with frying pans, sturgeon so 
large they were called “Albany beef,” and lob
ster so plentiful that they would pile up along 
Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
CHAPTER 5
 the shoreline after a storm. Game included 
deer, moose, partridge, pigeon, rabbit, rac
coon, squirrel, and turkey. Maple syrup was 
used to sweeten foods. Farther south, Native 
Americans cultivated groundnuts (Apios 
americana, or Indian potatoes) and tomatoes, 
and collected wild Jerusalem artichokes (a 
starchy tuber related to the sunflower). Native 
Americans of the Pacific Northwest collected 
enough food, such as salmon and fruit, during 
the summer to support them for the rest of the 
year. Peoples of the plains hunted buffalo, and 
those of the northeastern woodlands gathered 
wild rice; nations of the Southwest cultivated 
chile peppers and squash amid their corn (see 
Table 5.1).
 Native Americans not only introduced 
whites to indigenous foods but also shared 
their methods of cultivation and food prepa
ration. Legend has it that the Pilgrims nearly 
starved despite the plentiful food supply 
because they were unfamiliar with the local 
foods. One version of the tale is that Squanto, 
the sole surviving member of the Pautuxet 
(the other members had succumbed to small
pox following contact with earlier European 
explorers), saved the Pilgrims, who were 
TABLE 5.1 Indigenous Foods of the Americas
 Fruits
 mostly merchants, by teaching them to grow 
corn. He showed them the Native American 
method of planting corn kernels in mounds 
with a fish head for fertilizer and using the 
corn stalks as supports for beans.
 Foods Introduced from Europe
 Foods introduced by the Europeans, espe
cially the French Jesuits in the North and the 
Spanish in the South, were well accepted by 
Native Americans. Apples, apricots, carrots, 
lentils, peaches, purslane, and turnips were 
some of the more successful new foods. Settler 
William Penn noted that he found peaches in 
every large Native American farm he encoun
tered barely one hundred years after they had 
been introduced to the Iroquois. The Europe
ans also brought rye and wheat. However, few 
Native American nations replaced corn with 
these new grains.
 Livestock made a much greater impact 
on Native American life than did the new 
fruits and vegetables. Cattle, hogs, and sheep 
reduced the Native Americans’ dependence 
on game meats. The Creek and Cherokee of 
the Southeast fed their cattle on corn and fat
tened their suckling pigs and young lambs on 
Berries (blackberries, blueberries, cranberries, gooseberries, huckleberries, 
loganberries, raspberries, strawberries), cactus fruit (tuna), cherimoya, 
cherries (acerola cherries, chokecherries, ground-cherries), grapes (e.g., 
Concord), guava, mamey, papaya, passion fruit (granadilla), pawpaw, 
persimmon (American), pineapple, plums (American, beach), soursop 
(guanabana), zapote (sapodilla)
 Vegetables
 Tubers/roots
 Grains/cereals
 Nuts/seeds
 © Cengage Learning
 Legumes
 Poultry
 Avocado, bell peppers (sweet peppers, pimento), cactus (nopales, nopalitos), 
chayote (christophine, chocho, huisquil, mirliton, vegetable pear), 
pumpkins, squash, tomatillo, tomatoes
 Arrowroot, cassava (yuca, manioc, tapioca), groundnut, Indian breadroot, 
Jerusalem artichoke, jicama, malanga (yautia), potatoes, sweet potatoes
 Amaranth, corn (maize), quinoa, wild rice
 Brazil nuts, cashews, hickory nuts, pecans, pumpkin seeds (pepitas), 
sunflower seeds, walnuts (black)
 Beans (green beans, most dried beans), peanuts
 Turkey
 Seasonings/flavorings
 Allspice, chile peppers (e.g., hot and sweet ), chocolate (cocoa), maple syrup, 
sassafras (filé powder), spicebush, vanilla
 NOTE: Foods native to North, Central, or South America. Some items not indigenous to the United States (e.g., pineapple, potatoes) were popularized only after 
acceptance in Europe and introduction by European settlers. Other foods (e.g., avocado, jicama, tomatillo) have become more common in the United States with 
the growing Latino population.
 Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
NATIVE AMERICANS
 Regional Variations
 apples and nuts. The Powhatan of Virginia fed 
their hogs peanuts, then cured the meat over 
hickory smoke. Lamb and mutton became sta
ples in the Navajo diet after the introduction 
of sheep by the Spanish. In addition, the Euro
peans brought horses and firearms, which 
made hunting easier, and metal knives and 
iron pots, which simplified food preparation. 
They also introduced the Native Americans to 
distilled spirits.
 Staples
 The great diversity of Native American cul
tures has resulted in a broad variety of cui
sines. The cooking of one region was as 
different from that of another as French food 
is from German food today. Native American 
cooking featured local ingredients and often 
reflected the need to preserve foods for future 
shortages. The only staple foods common 
to many, though not all, Native American 
nations were beans, corn, and squash. The 
cultural food groups are listed in Table 5.2.
 TABLE 5.2 Cultural Food Groups
 Group
 Comments
 Native American fare has been divided by 
regions into five major types: northeastern, 
southern, plains, southwestern, and Pacific 
Northwest/Alaska Native. Although each area 
encompasses many different Native American 
nations, they share similarities in foods and 
food habits.
 Northeastern The northeastern region of 
the United States was heavily wooded, with 
numerous freshwater lakes and a long Atlantic 
coastline. It provided the local Native Ameri
cans, including the Iroquois and Powhatan, 
with abundant indigenous fruits, vegetables, 
fish, and game. Most nations also cultivated 
crops such as beans, corn, and squash. Many 
of the foods associated with the cooking of 
New England have their origins in northeast
ern Native American recipes. The clambake 
was created when the Narragansett and the 
Penobscot steamed their clams in beach pits 
lined with hot rocks and seaweed. Dried beans 
Common Foods
 Protein Foods
 Milk/milk products
 Meat/poultry/fish/
 eggs/legumes
 High incidence of lactose 
intolerance among Native 
Americans with a high 
percentage of Native 
American heritage.
 Meat is highly valued, 
considered healthful. 
Meats are mostly grilled or 
stewed, preserved through 
drying and smoking.
 Beans are an important 
protein source.
 No common milk products in 
traditional diets.
 Meat:
 bear, buffalo (including jerky, 
pemmican
 ), deer, elk, moose, opossum, 
otter, porcupine, rabbit, raccoon, 
squirrel.
 Poultry and small birds:
 duck, goose, lark, 
pheasant, quail, seagull, wild turkey.
 Fish, seafood, and marine mammals:
 Adaptations in the United States
 Powdered milk and evaporated milk 
are typical commodity products, 
usually added to coffee, cereal, 
and traditional baked goods; 
ice cream is popular with some 
groups.
 Some reports have been made of 
frequent milk consumption.
 Beef is well accepted; lamb and 
pork are also popular.
 Canned and cured meats (bacon, 
luncheon meat) may be common 
if income is limited.
 Game is rarely eaten.
 Meats remain a favorite food.
 abalone, bass, catfish, clams, cod, crab, 
eel, flounder, frogs, halibut, herring, 
lobster, mussels, olechan, oysters, 
perch, red snapper, salmon, seal, shad, 
shrimp, smelts, sole, sturgeon, trout, 
turtle, walrus, whale.
 Eggs:
 bird, fish.
 Legumes:
 many varieties of the common 
bean (kidney, navy, pinto, etc.), 
beans.
 tepary
 Chicken eggs are commonly eaten.
 Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
CHAPTER 5
 Group Comments Common Foods Adaptations in the United States
 Cereals/Grains Corn is primary grain; wild 
rice is available in some 
areas.
 Cornmeal breads (baked, steamed), 
hominy, gruels, corn tortillas, piki, 
toasted corn; wild rice.
 Wheat has widely replaced corn; 
store-bought or commodity 
breads and sugared cereals are 
common.
 Fruits/Vegetables Indigenous plants are major 
source of calories in diet 
of some Native American 
nations.
 Fruits and vegetables 
are either gathered or 
cultivated; fruit is a popular 
snack food.
 Fruit: blackberries, blueberries, 
buffalo berries, cactus fruit (tuna), 
chokeberries, cherries, crab apples, 
cranberries, currants, elderberries, 
grapes, groundcherries, huckleberries, 
persimmons, plums, raspberries, 
salal, salmonberries, strawberries 
(beach and wild), thimbleberries, wild 
rhubarb.
 Vegetables: camass root, cacti 
(nopales), chile peppers, fiddleheads, 
groundnuts, Indian breadroot, 
Jerusalem artichokes, lichen, moss, 
mushrooms, nettles, onions, potatoes, 
pumpkin, squash, squash blossoms, 
sweet potatoes, tomatoes, wild greens 
(cattail, clover, cow parsnip, creases, 
dandelion, ferns, milkweed, pigweed, 
pokeweed, saxifrage, sunflower leaves, 
watercress, winter cress), wild turnips, 
yuca (cassava).
 Cakes, cookies, pastries are popular.
 Apples became common after 
European introduction.
 Apples, bananas, oranges, peaches, 
pineapple have been well 
accepted; canned fruits are 
popular.
 Wild berries are still gathered in 
rural areas.
 Some traditional vegetables are 
eaten when available.
 Green peas, string beans, 
instant potatoes are common 
commodity items.
 Intake of vegetables is low; variety 
is limited.
 Potato chips and corn chips often 
are popular as snacks.
 Additional Foods
 Seasonings Chiles, garlic, hickory nut cream, onions, 
peppermint, sage, salt, sassafras, 
seaweed, spearmint, and other 
indigenous herbs and spices.
 Nuts/seeds Nuts and seeds are often 
an important food source; 
acorns are sometimes a 
staple.
 Acorn meal, black walnuts, buckeyes, 
chestnuts, hazelnuts, hickory nuts, 
mesquite tree beans, pecans, peanuts, 
piñon nuts (pine nuts), pumpkin seeds, 
squash seeds, sunflower seeds, seeds 
of wild grasses.
 Beverages Herbal teas are often 
consumed for enjoyment, 
therapeutic, or spiritual 
value.
 Teas of buffalo berries, mint, peyote, 
rose hip, sassafras, spicebush, sumac 
berries, yerba buena; honey and water.
 Coffee, tea, soft drinks are common 
beverages. Alcoholism is 
prevalent.
 Fats/oils Traditional diets vary in fat 
content, from extremely 
low in the mostly 
vegetarian cooking of 
California and Nevada 
Indians to very high in the 
primarily animal-based fare 
of Native Alaskans.
 Fats rendered from buffalo, caribou, 
moose, and other land mammals; seal 
and whale fat.
 Butter, lard, margarine, vegetable 
oils have replaced rendered fats 
in most regions; seal and whale 
fat are still consumed by the Inuit 
and Aleut.
 Sweeteners Consumption of sweets is 
low in traditional diets.
 Maple syrup, other tree saps, honey. Sugar is primary sweetener; candy, 
cookies, jams, and jellies are 
popular.
 © Cengage Learning
 Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
NATIVE AMERICANS
 A Native American hotel 
chef, George Crum, 
is attributed with the 
invention of potato chips 
in 1853. Today Americans 
consume an average of 
seventeen pounds of 
potato chips per person 
each year.
 were simmered for days with maple syrup (the 
precursor of Boston baked beans). The dish 
that today is called succotash comes from 
a stew common in the diet of most Native 
Americans; it combined corn, beans, and 
fish or game. In the Northeast it was usually 
flavored with maple syrup. Clam chowder, 
codfish balls, brown bread, corn pudding, 
pumpkin pie, and the dessert known as Indian 
pudding are all variations of northeastern 
Native American recipes. In addition to clams, 
the Native Americans of the region ate lobster, 
oysters, mussels, eels, and many kinds of salt
water and freshwater fish.
 Game, such as deer and rabbit, was eaten 
when available. Wild ducks, geese, and tur
keys were roasted with stuffings featuring 
crab apples, grapes, cranberries, or local 
mushrooms. Corn, as the staple food, was 
prepared in many ways, such as roasting the 
young ears; cooking the kernels or meal in 
soups, gruels, and breads; steaming it in pud
dings; or preparing it as popcorn. Pumpkins 
and squash were baked almost daily, and 
beans were added to soups and stews. Local 
green leafy vegetables were served fresh. 
SAMP
 L
 E MENU
 A Traditional  
Northeastern Indian Meal
 Iroquois Soup
 a,b
 Bannocks
 Indian Pudding
 a,b
 a
 or Duck with Wild Rice
 a
 a,c
 or Maple Popcorn Balls
 Strawberry Juice
 Cox, B., & Jacobs, M. 1991. 
a,c
 Spirit of the harvest: North American Indian cooking
 New York: Stewart, Tabori & Chang.
 b
 RecipeSource
 at http://www.recipesource.com/ethnic/americas/native/
 c
 Recipe Goldmine
 at 
http://www.recipegoldmine.com/regnativeam/nativeam.html
 .  
Sweets included cherries stewed with maple 
syrup, cranberry pudding, crab apple sauce, 
and hazelnut cakes.
 Southern The great variety of foods found 
in the northeastern region of the United 
States was matched by the plentiful fauna and 
lush flora of the South. Oysters, shrimp, and 
blue crabs washed up on the warm Atlantic 
beaches during tropical storms. The wood
lands and swamplands teemed with fish, fowl, 
and game, including bear, deer, raccoon, and 
turtle, as well as ample fresh fruit, vegetables, 
and nuts. The Native Americans of this region, 
such as the Cherokee, Creek, and Seminole, 
were accomplished farmers, growing crops of 
beans, corn, and squash.
 When Africans were first brought as slaves 
to America, they were often housed at the 
periphery of farms. Initially a great deal of 
interaction took place between blacks and 
local Native Americans, who taught them 
how to hunt the native game without guns 
and to use the indigenous plants. Some of the 
Native American cooking techniques were 
later introduced into white southern cuisine 
by African American cooks, and many of 
the flavors typical of modern southern cook
ing come from traditional Native American 
foods. Hominy (dried corn kernels with the 
hulls removed) and grits (made of coarsely 
ground hominy) were introduced to the set
tlers by the Native Americans. The chicken 
dish known as Brunswick stew is an adapta
tion of a southern Native American recipe for 
squirrel. The Native Americans also made 
sophisticated use of native plants for season
ing, and they thickened their soups and stews 
with sassafras.
 The staple foods of corn, beans, and squash 
were supplemented with the indigenous 
woodland fruits and vegetables. Blackber
ries, gooseberries, huckleberries, raspberries, 
strawberries, crab apples, grapes, groundcher
ries, Jerusalem artichokes, leafy green vegeta
bles, persimmons (pounded into a paste for 
puddings and cakes), and plums were some of 
the numerous edible native plants. Tomatoes 
and watermelons were added after introduc
tion by the Spanish into Florida. The Native 
Americans of the South also used beechnuts, 
Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
CHAPTER 5
 hazelnuts, hickory nuts, pecans, and black 
walnuts in their cooking. The thick, cream
like oil extracted from hickory nuts was used 
to flavor corn puddings and gruels, and a tra
ditional Cherokee specialty was kanuche, a 
soup made from the nuts (often with the addi
tion of corn, hominy, or rice), is still popular 
today. Honey was the sweetener used most 
frequently, and it was mixed with water for 
a cooling drink. Teas were made from mint, 
sassafras, or spicebush (Lindera benzoin), and 
during the summer “lemonade” was made 
from citrus-flavored sumac berries.
 Plains The Native Americans who lived in 
the area that is now the American Midwest 
were mostly nomadic hunters, following the 
great herds of bison across the flat plains for 
sustenance. The land was rugged and gener
ally unsuitable for agriculture. Those nations 
that settled along the fertile Mississippi and 
Missouri River valleys, however, developed 
farm-based societies supported by crops of 
beans, corn, and squash.
 Bison meat was the staple food for most 
plains nations such as the Arapaho, Cheyenne, 
Crow, Dakota, and Pawnee. The more tender 
cuts were roasted or broiled, while the tougher 
ribs, joints, and other bones with marrow 
were prepared in stews and soups. Pieces of 
meat, water, and sometimes vegetables would 
be placed in a hole in the ground lined with 
cleaned buffalo skin. The stew would then be 
stone boiled: rocks that had been heated in 
the fire would be added to the broth until the 
mixture was thoroughly cooked. All parts of 
the bison were eaten, including the liver and 
kidneys (which were consumed raw immedi
ately after the animal was slaughtered), udder, 
tongue, and hump. Extra meat was preserved 
by cutting it into very thin strips and then 
dehydrating it in the sun or over the fire. This 
tough, dried meat would keep for several years 
and was known as jerked buffalo or jerky. The 
jerky would be pulverized and mixed with 
water or corn gruel, or, in emergencies, eaten 
dry. Most often it was shredded and mixed 
with bison fat and berries, then formed into 
cakes called pemmican.
 When bison were unavailable, the plains 
nations would hunt deer, rabbit, and game 
birds. Fresh leafy green vegetables were con
sumed in season, and root vegetables, such 
as wild onions, prairie turnips (Psoralea 
esculenta, also called breadroot, tipsin, and 
timpsila), and Jerusalem artichokes, were 
eaten throughout the year. Wild rice, a native 
aquatic grass with an earthy, nutty flavor, 
was collected in the northern parts of the 
Midwest. It was served with bison, venison, 
or duck and used as a stuffing for grouse, par
tridge, and duck. Wild rice is believed to have 
traditionally provided as much as 25 percent 
of the total Ojibwa diet, and it was customar
ily prepared with maple syrup.28 Blackberries, 
shadberries (also called Juneberries or saska
toon berries), cherries, crab apples, grapes, 
persimmons, and plums were available in 
some areas, but the most popular fruit was 
the scarlet buffalo berry (Shepherdia canaden
sis), so called because it was often served in 
sauces for bison meat or dried for pemmican. 
In addition, berries were traditionally boiled 
with bison suet and/or blood to make a thick 
pudding called wojapi.
 Southwestern Some of the oldest Native 
American settlements in North America 
were located along the river valleys of the arid 
Southwest. Despite the semidesert conditions, 
many Native Americans such as the Hopi, 
Pima, Pueblo, and Zuni lived in pueblo (Span
ish for “town” or “village”) communities and 
were mostly farmers, cultivating beans, chili 
peppers, corn, and squash. Others, including 
the Apache and Navajo, were originally rov
ing hunters and gatherers. After the Spanish 
introduced livestock, some of these nomadic 
groups began to raise sheep. Mutton has since 
become associated as a traditional staple food 
of the region.
 Until the arrival of livestock, the diet of the 
region was predominantly plant based, pro
viding a nourishing diet when supplemented 
with small game such as rabbit and turkey. 
Corn was the primary food, and at least five 
different colors of corn were cultivated. Each 
color symbolized one of the cardinal points for 
the Zuni, and each had its own use in cook
ing. White corn (East) was ground into a fine 
meal and used in gruels and breads. Yellow 
corn (North) was roasted and eaten in kernel 
Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
NATIVE AMERICANS
 SAMP
 L
 E MENU
 A Traditional  
Southeastern Indian Meal
 Cherokee Pepper Pot Soup
 a,b
 Corn Pone
 Huckleberry Honey Cake
 a
 Cox, B., & Jacobs, M. 1991. 
a,c
 or Brunswick Stew
 a
 a,b,
 or Grape Dumplings
 Honey Water
 Spirit of the harvest: North American Indian cooking
 New York: Stewart, Tabori & Chang.
 b
 RecipeSource
 at 
http://www.recipesource.com/ethnic/americas/native/
 c
 Recipe Goldmine
 at 
http://www.recipegoldmine.com/regnativeam/nativeam.html
 SAMP
 L
 E MENU
 A Traditional  
Great Plains Indian Meal
 Pemmican
 Stuffed Pumpkin
 a
 Chokecherry Pudding
 a
 a
 .  
a,b,c
 or Buffalo/Bison Stew
 Broiled Jerusalem Artichokes
 a
 a,b
 or 
Wojapi
 Wojapi
 Wojapi
 b
 (pudding)
 (pudding)
 Peppermint Tea
 b
 Cox, B., & Jacobs, M. 1991. 
Spirit of the harvest: North American Indian cooking
 New York: Stewart, Tabori & Chang.
 b
 Native Tech: Indigenous Foods and Traditional Recipes
 http://www.nativetech.org/recipes/index.php
 c
 Pemmican: Recipes, Stories and Stores
 http://w4.lns.cornell.edu/~seb/pemmican.html
 .  
 at 
 at 
b
 form or off the ear. The rarer red (South), blue 
(West), and black (the nadir, the lowest point 
beneath the observer) corn was used mostly 
for special dishes, such as the lacy flat Hopi 
bread made from blue cornmeal, known as 
piki. Multicolored corn represented the zenith. 
The Hopi also attached importance to the 
color of corn and cultivated twenty different 
varieties. In many areas, corn was prepared in 
ways similar to those of the northern Mexican 
Native Americans—tortillas (flat, griddle
fried cornmeal bread), pozole (hominy), and 
the tamale-like chukuviki (stuffed cornmeal 
dough packets). Juniper ash (considered a 
good source of calcium and iron) was often 
added to cornmeal dishes for flavoring.29
 Beans were the second most important 
crop of the southwestern region. Many vari
eties were grown, including the domesticated 
indigenous tepary beans and pinto beans 
from Mexico. Both squash and pumpkins 
were commonly consumed, and squash blos
soms were fried or added to soups and salads. 
Squash and pumpkin seeds were also used to 
flavor dishes, and chile peppers were used as 
vegetables and to season stews. Cantaloupes 
(also known as muskmelons) were also grown 
after they were introduced by the Spanish.
 When crops were insufficient, the south
western Native Americans relied on wild 
plants, and to add variety, tender amaranth 
greens were eaten in summer. Piñon seeds 
(also called pine nuts) flavored stews and 
soups. Both the fruit (tunas) and the pads 
(nopales) of the prickly pear cactus were 
eaten, as were the pulp and fruit of other 
succulents, such as yucca (the starchy fruit 
known today as “Navajo bananas”). A unique 
food popular with some Apache was the root 
of the mescal plant, another desert succu
lent. It would be baked for hours in a cov
ered, stone-heated pit until it developed a 
soft, sticky texture and a flavor similar to 
molasses.5 The beans of the mesquite tree 
were a staple in some desert regions; they 
were ground into a flour and used in gruels, 
breads, and sun-baked cakes.
 Northwest Coast/Alaska Natives This culinary 
region incorporates a diverse geographic area. 
The climate of the Pacific Northwest coast is 
Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
CHAPTER 5
 temperate. The luxuriantly forested hills and 
mountain slopes abound with edible plants 
and game, and the sea supplies fish, shell
fish, and marine mammals. Farther north, 
in Alaska and Canada, the growing season 
shortens to only a few summer months, and 
temperatures in the winter regularly plunge 
to minus fifty degrees Fahrenheit. Two-thirds 
of Alaska is affected by permafrost, and the 
vast stretches of tundra are inhospitable to 
humans.
 The Native American ethnic groups inhab
iting this region include Indians as well as 
the Inuit (Eskimos) and the Aleut, known as 
Alaska Natives. Native American nations such 
as the Tlingit and Kwakiutl inhabit the north
west coastal area and some interior Alaskan 
regions. The Aleut live on the thousand-mile
long chain of volcanic islands that arch into the 
Pacific from Alaska called the Aleutians. The 
Inuit, including the Yupik and Inupiat, live in 
the northern and western areas of Alaska, as 
well as in Canada, Greenland, and Siberia.
 The Native Americans of the Northwest 
Coast had no need for agriculture. Food was 
plentiful, and salmon was their staple. The fish 
were caught annually in the summer as they 
swam upstream to spawn. They were roasted 
over the fire when fresh, and the eggs, known 
today as red caviar, were a favorite treat when 
dried in the sun into chewy strips. Extra fish 
were smoked to preserve them for the winter. 
In addition, cod, clams, crabs, halibut, her
ring, shrimp, sole, smelt, sturgeon, and trout 
were consumed. Ocean mammals such as 
otter, seal, and whale were also hunted. Bear, 
deer, elk, and mountain goats were eaten, as 
were numerous wild fowl and game birds.
 Despite the abundant fish and game, wild 
plants made up more than half the diet of the 
Northwest Coast Native Americans. More 
than one hundred varieties of indigenous 
fruits, vegetables, and even lichen were con
sumed, including acorns, blackberries, blue
berries, chokecherries (Prunus virginiana), 
desert parsley, hazelnuts, huckleberries, 
mint, raspberries, salal (Gaultheria shallon), 
and strawberries. Camass roots (Camassia 
quamash), a bulb related to the hyacinth, 
were roasted or dried by many Indians of the 
region. Fresh greens were also popular.
 In contrast to the plenty of the Northwest 
Coast, the diet of many Alaska Natives was 
often marginal. The Inuit and Aleut were 
usually seminomadic, traveling as necessary 
to fish and hunt. Fish and sea mammals, 
such as seal, walrus, and whale, were the sta
ple foods. Arctic hare, caribou, ducks, geese, 
mountain goats, moose, musk oxen (hunted 
to extinction in Alaska by the 1870s), polar 
bear, and mountain sheep were consumed 
when available. Some items were boiled, 
but many were eaten raw due to the lack 
of wood or other fuel. The fat of animals 
was especially valued as food. Muktuk (also 
called muntak or onattak), still a commonly 
consumed item, consists of chunks of meat 
with the layer of fat and skin attached. Muk
tuk is typically frozen before use. Walrus or 
whale muktuk can also be preserved by roll
ing it in herbs (with no salt) and fermenting 
it in a pit for several months to make a treat 
known as kopalchen. Akutok, a favored dish, 
was a mixture of seal oil, berries, and cari
bou fat. Even the stomachs of certain game 
were examined for edible undigested foods, 
SAMP
 L
 E MENU
 A Traditional  
Southwestern Meal
 Green Chili Stew
 Blue Corn Bread
 b,c,d
 Pueblo Piñon/Feast Day Cookies
 a
 Cox, B., & Jacobs, M. 1991. 
b
 a,b,c,d
 or Frybread
 a,d
 a,b,c,d
 or Navajo Peach Crisp
 Spirit of the harvest: North American Indian cooking
 .  
New York: Stewart, Tabori & Chang.
 Keegan, M. 1996. 
Southwest Indian cookbook
 Clear Light Publishers.
 c
 . Santa Fe, NM:  
Traditional Native American Recipes from The Cooking Post
 Traditional Native American Recipes from The Cooking Post
 Traditional Native American Recipes from The Cooking Post
 http://cookingpost.com/recipes.htm
 d
 Recipe Goldmine
 at 
 at 
 at 
http://www.recipegoldmine.com/regnativeam/nativeam.html
 a,b
 Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
NATIVE AMERICANS
 Bettmann/CORBIS
 ▲ Inuit women preparing a 
dead seal for butchering.
 such as lichen in elk and clams in wal
ruses. The limited selection of wild plants 
included willow shrubs, seaweed, mosses, 
lichen, a few blueberries, salmonberries, 
and cranberries. Leaves from an aromatic 
bush known as bog shrub (Ledum palustre) 
were brewed to make tundra tea (also called 
Hudson Bay tea), a beverage still popular 
today.
 Other Native American Cuisines Many tra
ditional Native American diets do not fit 
SAMP
 L
 E MENU
 A Northwest Coast Indian Meal
 Barbecued Clams
 a
 or Fresh Salmon
 Elk Stew with Acorn Dumplings
 Steamed Fiddlehead Ferns
 Whipped Raspberry (Soup)
 a
 Cox, B., & Jacobs, M. 1991. 
c
 a,b
 a,b
 a,b
 Spirit of the harvest: North American Indian cooking
 New York: Stewart, Tabori & Chang.
 b
 Astray Recipes 
at http://www.astray.com/recipes/
 c
 Kwakuitl Recipes
 at http://www.hallman.org/indian/recipe.html
 .  
conveniently within the five major regional 
cuisines. Among them was the fare of the 
population found in what is now Nevada 
and parts of California, called Digger Indi
ans by the first whites to encounter them 
because they subsisted mostly on dug-up 
roots, such as Indian breadroot, supple
mented by small game and insects. In central 
California, numerous nations, such as the 
Miwok and Pomo, had an acorn-based diet. 
Acorns contain tannic acid, a bitter-tasting 
substance that is toxic in large quantities. 
To make the acorns edible, Native Ameri
can women would first crack and remove 
the hard hull, grind the meat into a meal, 
add water to make a dough, and then leach 
the tannic acid from the dough by repeat
edly pouring hot water through it. Acorns 
were sometimes leached in sandy-bottomed 
streams as well.
 In the rugged northern mountains and 
plains lived nations such as the Blackfeet, 
Crow, Shoshone, and Dakota, who were 
nomadic hunters of game. Although many 
may have hunted bison at one time, they 
were limited to the local bear, deer, moose, 
rabbits, wildfowl, and freshwater fish when 
the expansion of other Native Americans 
and whites into the Midwest pushed them 
northward and westward. Wild plants added 
variety to their diet. For example, the Nez 
Percé baked camass roots in a covered pit 
with heated rocks, which caramelized the 
starch providing a sweet, onion-like flavor. 
The cooked roots were made into gruel or 
dough for bread.30
 Meal Composition 
and Cycle
 Daily Patterns
 Traditional meal patterns varied according to 
ethnic group and locality. In the Northeast, 
one large, hearty meal was consumed before 
noon, and snacks, such as soup, were available 
throughout the day. In some tribes, no specific 
meal time was standard. The men were served 
first, and stood or sat while they consumed 
the meal in silence. Women and children 
ate next.
 Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
CHAPTER 5
 Serving two meals per day was more com
mon in the Southwest. The women would rise 
before dawn to prepare breakfast, eaten at sun
rise. The afternoon was spent cooking the eve
ning meal, which was eaten before sunset. Two 
meals per day was also the pattern among the 
Native Americans of the Pacific Northwest.
 In regions with limited resources, meals 
were often monotonous. The two daily meals 
of the southwestern Native Americans, for 
example, regularly consisted of cornmeal 
gruel or bread and boiled dehydrated vegeta
bles. No distinction was made between morn
ing or evening menus. Other dishes such as 
game, fresh vegetables, or fruit were included 
when seasonally available. The single meal 
of the northeastern Native Americans often 
included roasted game; the Northwest Coast 
Native Americans frequently included some 
form of salmon twice a day, in addition to the 
many local edible greens and roots.
 Food was simply prepared. It was roasted 
over the fire or in the ashes or cooked in soups 
or stews. The northeastern and Northwest 
Coast Native Americans steamed sea-food in 
pits; southwestern Native Americans baked 
cornmeal bread in adobe ovens called hornos. 
(After the introduction of hogs, flat breads 
were commonly fried in lard.) Seasonal items 
were preserved by drying them in the sun or 
smoking them over a fire; for meat, fish, and 
oysters, special wood was often used to impart 
a distinctive flavor. Other foods were ground 
into a meal or pounded into a paste. In Alaska, 
meats, greens, and berries were preserved in 
fermented (aged) blubber. All nations liked 
sweets, but they were limited to fruits and 
dishes flavored with maple syrup, honey, or 
other indigenous sweeteners.
 Special Occasions
 Many Native American religious ceremo
nies were accompanied by feasts. Among the 
northeastern Iroquois, seasonal celebrations 
were held for the maple, planting, strawberry, 
green corn, harvest, and New Year’s festivals. 
The southern nations held an elaborate Green 
Corn Festival in thanks for a plentiful summer 
harvest. No one was allowed to eat any of the 
new corn until the ceremony was complete. 
Each home was thoroughly cleaned, the fires 
were extinguished, and all old pieces of pot
tery and clothing were replaced with newly 
made items. The adult men bathed and purged 
themselves with an emetic. When everything 
and everyone were thoroughly clean in body 
and spirit, a central fire was lit by rubbing two 
sticks together, and each hearth fire was relit 
with its flames. The feasting on new corn then 
began. Amnesty was granted for all offenses 
except murder, and the festival signified 
the beginning of a new year for marriages, 
divorces, and periods of mourning.
 Role of Food in Native 
American Culture and 
Etiquette
 Historically, many Native American nations, 
especially in the inland regions, experienced 
frequent food shortages. As a result, food is 
valued as sacred, and, in the holistic world
view of most Native American groups, food 
is also considered a gift of the natural realm. 
In some nations elaborate ceremonies accom
panied cultivation of crops, and prayers were 
offered for a successful hunt.
 The men in many nations were tradition
ally responsible for hunting or the care of live
stock. The job of food gathering, preparation, 
and storage usually belonged to the women, ▼  Baking bread in a south
western outdoor oven.
 Bettmann/Corbis
 Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
NATIVE AMERICANS
 who also made the cooking utensils, such 
as watertight baskets or clay pots.8,24 In pre
dominantly horticultural societies, both men 
and women were frequently involved in cul
tivation of the crops. Among the nations of 
the Northeast, the men ate first, followed by 
women and children. In the Southwest, men 
prepared the game they caught and served it 
to the women.
 Sharing food is an important aspect of 
most Native American societies today. Food 
is usually offered to guests, and in some tribes 
it is considered rude for a guest to refuse food. 
It is also impolite to eat in front of others with
out sharing.31 Any extra food is often given 
to members of the extended family. In some 
nations of the Southwest, meals are prepared 
and eaten communally. Each woman makes 
a large amount of one dish and shares it with 
the other families, who in turn share what 
they have prepared. Many Native Americans 
find the idea of selling food inconceivable; it 
is suggested that this is one reason there are 
few restaurants featuring Native American 
specialties.
 Therapeutic Uses of Food
 The role of food in spiritual and physical 
health is still important for many Native 
Americans, and many food plants provide 
medicine in some form. Corn is significant in 
some healing ceremonies. Cornmeal may be 
sprinkled around the bed of a patient to pro
tect him or her against further illness. Corn 
pollen may be used to ease heart palpitations, 
and fine cornmeal is rubbed on children’s 
rashes. Navajo women drink blue cornmeal 
gruel to promote the production of milk after 
childbirth, and Pueblo women use a mixture 
of water and corn ear smut (Ustilago maydis a 
kind of fungus) to relieve diarrhea and to cure 
irregular menstruation. A similar drink was 
given to Zuni women to speed childbirth and 
to prevent postpartum hemorrhaging. Corn 
silk tea was used as a diuretic and was pre
scribed for bladder infections.32
 Numerous other indigenous plants are 
used by Native Americans for medicinal 
purposes. For example, agave leaves (from 
a succulent common in the Southwest) are 
chewed as a general tonic, and the juice is 
applied to fresh wounds. Another succu
lent, yucca, was considered a good laxative 
by the Hopi. Pumpkin pastes soothe burns. 
Chile peppers are used in compresses for 
arthritis and applied directly to warts. Infu
sions are used for many remedies, such as 
wild strawberries or elderberry flowers for 
diarrhea and mint tea to ease colic, indi
gestion, and nausea. The Ojibwa boiled 
blackberry roots to prevent miscarriages 
and sumac fruit and roots to stop bleeding. 
Traditionally, maple sugar lozenges were 
used for sore throats. Bitter purges and 
emetics are administered because they are 
distasteful and repugnant to any evil spirits 
that might cause illness.33
 Food restrictions are still common dur
ing illness. Depending on the nation, many 
Native Americans believe that cabbage, eggs, 
fish, meat, milk, onions, or organ meats 
should be eliminated from a patient’s diet. 
Conversely, some foods may be considered 
important to maintain strength during sick
ness, such as meat among the Seminole in 
Florida,34 and both meat and blue cornmeal 
among the Navajo.35 The Navajo may avoid 
sweets during pregnancy to prevent having a 
weak infant.16 Some foods are prohibited after 
childbirth, such as cod, halibut, huckleberries, 
and spring salmon for Nootka women of the 
Northwest Coast.
 Native Americans found many plants had 
psychotherapeutic properties. They were 
used to relax and sedate patients, to stupefy 
enemies, and to induce hypnotic trances dur
ing religious ceremonies. The opiates in the 
roots of California poppies dulled the pain of 
toothache, for example. Lobelia was smoked 
as an antispasmodic for asthma and bronchi
tis. In the Southwest, knobs from the peyote 
cactus were used to produce hallucinations, 
sometimes in combination with other intoxi
cants. Jimsonweed (Datura stramonium) was 
traditionally used to keep boys in a semicon
scious state for twenty days so that they could 
forget their childhood during Algonquin 
puberty rites.36 It is still used today by some 
Native Americans for medicinal and ritual 
purposes.
 Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
CHAPTER 5
 Contemporary Food 
Habits
 Native American ethnic identity is chang
ing. Traditional beliefs and values are often 
in direct conflict with those of the majority 
society, and Native Americans’ self-concept 
has undergone tremendous changes in the 
process of acculturation. Three transitional 
adaptations of members of the Ojibwa (also 
called Chippewa) tribe, identified by three 
different lifestyles, may serve as a model for 
the adaptations made by members of other 
Native American groups.37 The first stage of 
adaptation is traditional; during this stage 
parents and grandparents speak the Ojibwa 
language at home, practice the Midewiwin 
religion, and participate in Native American 
cultural activities such as feasts and pow
wows. The second stage is more acculturated. 
English is the primary language, although 
some Ojibwa also is spoken. Catholicism 
is the preferred religion, and the family is 
involved in activities of the majority soci
ety. In the third Ojibwa lifestyle—the pan
traditional stage—the family speaks either 
English or Ojibwa exclusively; practices 
a religion that is a combination of Native 
American and Christian beliefs, such as the 
Native American Church; and is actively 
involved in activities of both traditional 
Native American and white societies.
 Adaptation of Food Habits
 Food habits reflect changes in Native Ameri
can ethnic identity. Many Native Americans 
eat a diet that includes few traditional foods. 
Others are consciously attempting to revive 
the foods and dishes of their ancestors.
 Ingredients and Common Foods
 When Native Americans were uprooted from 
their lands and their known food supplies, 
many immediately became dependent on the 
foods provided to the reservations. One study 
evaluating the diets of Havasupai Indians liv
ing on a reservation in Arizona found that 
58 percent of the subjects ate only foods 
purchased or acquired on the reservation 
during the twenty-four-hour recall period.38
 Commodity foods currently include items 
such as canned and chopped meats, poultry, 
fruit juices, peanut butter, eggs, evaporated 
and powdered milk, dried beans, instant 
potatoes, peas, and string beans. Research
ers report that many of these foods, such as 
kidney beans, noodles, and peanut butter, 
are discarded by the Navajo; powdered milk 
may also be rejected because it is disliked or 
is considered a weak food suitable only for 
infants or elderly people.19 On some reserva
tions, large supermarkets provide a selection 
of foods similar to that found throughout the 
United States; however, on more remote res
ervations and in many rural areas access to 
markets is very limited.18,39,40 Other sources of 
food include gardening (reportedly practiced 
by between 43 and 91 percent of rural Native 
Americans), fishing, hunting, gathering indig
enous plants, and raising livestock. One study 
of California Miwok, for instance, reports that 
67 percent of respondents recall that their 
grandparents harvested wild greens, nuts, 
berries, and mushrooms, and that 47 percent 
of respondents continue to supplement their 
diet this way.41 A national Canadian survey 
reported that 66 percent of aboriginal peoples 
obtained some of their meat, poultry, and 
fish through hunting and fishing; 10 percent 
obtained most in this way; and 5 percent 
obtained all this way.42 These supplementary 
food sources are limited by seasonality and, 
in some cases, by state and federal hunting 
and fishing laws.39 Native Americans living in 
urban areas have the same access to food as 
other city dwellers.
 Over the years, traditional foods were lost 
and substitutions were made. For example, 
beef is a commonly accepted substitute for 
game among many Native American ethnic 
groups. Fry bread is another example. It is a 
flat bread made from wheat flour typically 
fried in lard, and has been prepared in the 
Southwest for about one hundred years and 
in other regions for even less time. Though 
made from ingredients introduced by the 
Europeans, it is one of the items most often 
identified as “traditional” among Indians 
throughout the nation,43 and it is often served 
Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
NATIVE AMERICANS
 at Native American festivals. It has been sug
gested that the substitution of Western foods, 
especially commodity items, in the prepara
tion of traditional Indian dishes has adversely 
affected the nutritional value of these foods.44
 Traditional foods make up less than 25 per
cent of the daily diet among the Hopi. Older 
Hopi women lament the fact that younger 
Hopi are no longer learning how to cook 
these dishes.45 In a study of Cherokee women, 
the degree of Native American heritage of the 
woman in charge of the food supply in the 
home directly affected the consumption of 
traditional foods in that home.46 Corn and 
corn products, such as hominy, were among 
the most popular traditional foods; game 
meat, hickory nuts, raspberries, and win
ter squash were the least commonly served. 
Among Cherokee teenagers, traditional items 
such as fry bread, bean bread (corn bread with 
pinto beans), and chestnut bread (made from 
chestnuts and cornmeal) were well accepted. 
Although more than 80 percent of the ado
lescents were familiar with typical Cherokee 
dishes, including native greens and game 
meat (bear, deer, groundhog, rabbit, raccoon, 
squirrel, and wild boar), these foods were 
rarely eaten.47 Pima consume traditional 
items, such as tepary beans and cactus stew, 
mostly at community get-togethers.48 A small 
sample of children from four different Native 
American communities recorded that only 
7 out of 1,308 items listed in food recalls for 
the study were traditional.49 California Miwok 
list mostly southwestern items such as beans, 
rice, and tortillas as those they most associ
ate with Native American foods and recall 
numerous items eaten by their grandparents 
but not consumed now, such as squirrel, rab
bit, deer, acorn mush, and certain insects. 
Access to wild game is limited due to hunt
ing restrictions. Navajo women eat traditional 
foods infrequently, with the exception of fry 
bread, mutton, and tortillas. Blue cornmeal 
mush (with ash), hominy, and sumac berry 
pudding are a few of the native dishes con
sumed occasionally.50 Dakota women of all 
ages take pride in traditional foods but pre
pare them only when it is convenient or for 
special occasions. A study of Sencotan Indians 
in British Columbia found that marine foods, 
especially salmon, retain social and economic 
importance within the community.51 Among 
some Baffin Inuit, traditional foods (e.g., sea 
and land mammals, fish) make up about one
third of energy intake. Men were found to eat 
more traditional items than women.52 A study 
of Yupik Inuit found that younger respondents 
(ages 14–19) ate significantly fewer traditional 
foods than did the oldest respondents 
(ages 40–81).53
 Broader efforts to preserve traditional and 
adapted Native American food traditions are 
also underway. Notably, the group Renewing 
America’s Food Traditions (RAFT), a coali
tion of organizations dedicated to bring
ing the foods of the past into the present, 
have listed over 700 endangered food items 
(see Table 5.3). Support of communities 
attempting to recover and conserve food 
traditions is their primary goal.54
 Meal Composition and Cycle
 Little has been reported regarding current 
Native American meal patterns. It is assumed 
that three meals per day has become the 
norm, especially in families without income 
constraints. Meals consumed by Native Amer
icans vary considerably among regions. In 
the text Cultural Food Practices, the diet for 
Northern Plains Indians’ is described as one 
centered around meats and starches with a 
limited variety of fruits and vegetables. The 
access to commodity food supplements also 
influences food choices.18 The Navajo still use 
traditional cooking methods but have also 
adapted to using more fat and salt in food 
preparation.18 Navajo women were found to 
eat fry bread or tortillas, potatoes, eggs, sugar, 
and coffee most frequently. Fried foods were 
preferred for breakfast, and lunch and dinner 
consisted of one boiled meal and one fried 
or roasted meal. The Pima in Arizona prefer 
eggs, bacon or sausage, and fried potatoes for 
breakfast, while Southwest specialties, such as 
tacos, tamales, and chili con carne, are com
mon at other meals. A study comparing Indi
ans in New England living on reservations to 
those living in urban areas found baking and 
boiling remain favored preparation meth
ods by respondents living on reservations, 
whereas urban residents were more likely to 
Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
TABLE 5.3 America’s Top Ten Endangered Foods
 CHAPTER 5
 Chapalote Corn
 Chiltepin Pepper
 Considered the original cultivated corn with small ears, coffee-colored kernels, 
and a flinty flavor
 Pea-sized, very hot wild chile pepper native to the Southwest considered the 
ancestor of most varieties used today—drought, diminishing habitat, and 
unscrupulous harvesting threatens this chile with extinction
 Eulachon Smelt
 Gulf Coast Sheep
 Pacific Northwest source of oil that has suffered serious declines in 
population—further, traditional methods of processing are gradually being lost
 Introduced to the Southeast by the Spanish in the 1500s, this breed adapted 
well to the humid conditions of the region, providing excellent meat and 
wool—newer breeds are lessening their popularity
 Java Chicken
 Marshall Strawberry
 Native American 
Sunflowers
 Pineywoods Cattle
 Seminole Pumpkin
 White Abalone
 One of the first chicken breeds introduced to the United States, these birds now 
number only about one hundred
 An heirloom fruit discovered in Massachusetts in 1890 but grown commercially 
in the Pacific Northwest—very intense flavor
 Indigenous plants cultivated by the Native Americans for seeds and oil—
 brought to Europe as an oil source—popularity of the oil led to growing a 
single “improved” variety, and this one type is now susceptible to numerous rust 
diseases—few sources of the original seeds remain
 A foraging breed introduced by the Spanish to Florida, particularly suited to 
conditions in the South, and popular with early Native American ranchers—
 approximately 200 animals are left
 A pear-shaped pumpkin grown on vines that use trees for support—found in 
the Everglades but rarely cultivated today
 The deepest inhabitant of West Coast Abalone, it has neared extinction due 
to the popularity of its sweet meat—now being bred in a recovery program 
designed to save it
 SOURCE: Nabhan, G.P., & Rood, A. 2004. Renewing America’s Food Traditions (RAFT): Bringing cultural and culinary mainstays of the past into the new millennium. 
Flagstaff: Center for Sustainable Agriculture at Northern Arizona University.
 fry items. Grilled meats and smoked fish were 
also common ways of cooking.43
 Special Occasions
 Numerous traditional celebrations are main
tained by Native American tribal groups.18
 Among the largest is the five-day Navajo 
Nation Fair held each Labor Day weekend; 
the Pawnee Veteran’s Day Dance and Gather
ing where ground meat with pecans and corn 
with yellow squash are served; the Miccosukee 
Arts Festival and the Seminole Fair in Miami, 
where alligator meat is featured; the Iroquois 
Midwinter Festival held in January to mark the 
new year; the Upper Mattaponi Spring Festival 
in Virginia over Memorial Day weekend; the 
three-day Creek Nation Festival and Rodeo; 
the Yukon International Storytelling Festival 
at which wild game such as caribou and musk 
ox are available; and the Apache Sunrise Cer
emony which features gathered foods such as 
amaranth leaves and the pulp and fruit from 
the saguaro and prickly pear cacti. More local 
festivities are also common. Pueblo Feast Days 
are observed in honor of the Catholic patron 
saint of each village with a soup of posole 
(hominy) and beef or pork ribs. Northwest 
Coast potlatches are common in the spring, 
featuring herring roe, fish or venison stews, 
euchalon, salmon, and other traditional foods. 
In addition, there are all-Indian festivals that 
draw attendees from throughout the country, 
such as O’Odham Tash Indian Days in 
Casa Grande, Arizona; the Red Earth Festival 
in Oklahoma City; and the Gallup Intertribal 
Indian Ceremonial in New Mexico. Native 
Americans may also eat traditional foods on 
special occasions such as birthdays, but for 
holidays of the majority culture, other foods 
are considered appropriate. For example, tur
key with all the trimmings is served by the 
Dakota for Thanksgiving and Christmas.55
 Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
NATIVE AMERICANS
 Nutritional Status
 Nutritional Intake
 Research on the nutritional status of Native 
Americans is limited. Severe malnutrition 
was documented in the 1950s and 1960s, 
including numerous cases of kwashiorkor 
and marasmus. Today, lower socioeconomic 
status and higher unemployment contribute 
to an inadequate diet for some Native Ameri
cans. In general, however, recent changes in 
morbidity and mortality figures suggest that 
Native Americans have transitioned from the 
conditions associated with underconsump
tion, such as infectious diseases, to conditions 
associated with overconsumption, including 
obesity, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular 
disease.56
 Studies of current Alaska Native eat
ing habits suggest that diets high in refined 
carbohydrates (starchy and sugary foods) 
and fat, and low in fruits and vegetables, are 
common. The protein and nutrient of Alaska 
Natives has declined during the past several 
decades, as many foods obtained through 
hunting and gathering were replaced by pro
cessed, canned, and packaged items.57 The 
estimated carbohydrate content of the Alaska 
Native diet before contact with Westerners 
was exceptionally low (3 to 5 percent of daily 
calories) due to a dependence on sea mam
mals and fish. Within only a few generations, 
that figure had increased to 50 percent of total 
calories, much of it from low-nutrient-density 
foods.58,59 Research on Alaska Natives has also 
shown low intakes of calcium, iron, phospho
rus, magnesium, zinc, vitamins A, C, D, and 
E, riboflavin, and folic acid, as well as fiber, 
omega-6, and omega-3 fatty acids. Traditional 
Alaska Native diets have been found lower in 
fat and carbohydrates, and higher in protein, 
phosphorus, potassium, iron, zinc, copper, 
magnesium, manganese, selenium, and sev
eral vitamins, including A, D, E, riboflavin, 
and B6
 .60,61,62,63
 A similar transition occurred in the diets of 
American Indians in other parts of the nation; 
and today, refined carbohydrates are promi
nent in the diet. Studies have identified white 
breads, tortillas, potato chips, French fries, 
and candy as the top contributors of energy 
for many Native Americans.49,64,65,66,67 Of par
ticular note is the consumption of sweetened 
beverages, including soda and fruit-flavored 
drinks, estimated to be 15 to 27 percent of 
all carbohydrates consumed, and as much as 
17 percent of daily calories.64,67,68,69,70,71 High
fat foods, including fried foods and processed 
meats and beef dishes, are another significant 
source of energy.
 A low intake of fruits and vegetables is 
prevalent in the diets of both Native Ameri
can adults and adolescents.64,65 Of Indians in 
California, 60 percent said they had not eaten 
any fruit the previous day, and 28 percent 
reported they had not consumed any vege
tables.72 Among the Lakota of South Dakota, 
nearly 60 percent stated they ate fruit only two 
to eight times a month; nearly half reported 
eating vegetables (including potatoes) over 
five times weekly.73 A study of Catawba 
showed 47 percent ate less than one fruit daily, 
and 87 percent consumed only one vegetable 
or less.74 The vegetable most often consumed 
in a study of Native American women in 
Oklahoma was French fries; and only toma
toes, tossed salad, green beans, potato salad, 
and mashed potatoes were also mentioned in 
the list of the top fifty-three items most often 
eaten.69 Barriers to increased consumption of 
fruit and vegetables included cost, availability, 
and quality.
 Native American nutrient intake has been 
compared to that of the general population in 
a few studies. It is notable that among both 
children and adults, few differences are found. 
One large study in three states reported that 
median intakes of vitamins A and C and folate 
were low for both American Indians and the 
total population.75 A comparison of dietary 
calcium intake among African American, 
Native American, and white women in North 
Carolina found that although whites ate sig
nificantly more high-calcium foods than did 
Native Americans, none of the respondents 
were consuming recommended levels of the 
mineral through their food.5,76 Other research
ers who investigated rural Native American 
and white children in Oklahoma suggest that 
their diets are more influenced by factors such 
as poverty and living in a rural area than by 
cultural or structural issues related to race or 
Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
CHAPTER 5
 ethnicity.67 Nutrient deficiencies in Native 
American adults and children may occur, but 
with the exception of Alaska Natives, most 
studies suggest dietary adequacy similar to 
that of the total U.S. population.
 Life expectancy has improved over recent 
years, yet disparities are still found. The aver
age life expectancy is approximately 4.2 years 
less when compared to the U.S. popula
tion. “American Indians and Alaska Natives 
continue to die at higher rates than other 
Americans from a variety of ailments, includ
ing chronic liver disease and cirrhosis, diabe
tes mellitus, unintentional injuries, assault/
 homicide, intentional self-harm/suicide, and 
chronic lower respiratory diseases.”77
 Native American mothers are more likely 
to be younger than the general population 
and less likely to be married. Thirty percent of 
American Indian and Alaska Native women 
do not receive prenatal care during the first 
trimester of pregnancy. American Indian 
and Alaska Native infants die at a rate of 
8.5 per every 1,000 live births, as compared 
to 6.8 per 1,000 for the U.S. all races popu
lation (2000–2008 rates).4,76 Postnatal 
mortality rates are nearly 60 percent higher 
for American Indians and Alaska Natives 
compared to the total population; this is 
mostly due to sudden infant death syndrome 
(SIDS), congenital malformations, prematu
rity, and injury.78 Breast-feeding has tradi
tionally been considered the proper way to 
feed infants among most Native Americans. 
Among the Navajo in one study, elders 
reported that breast-fed infants were better 
able to hear traditional teachings and were 
better disciplined. It also demonstrated that 
the children are loved. Eighty-one percent of 
subjects initiated breast-feeding. Most added 
infant formula within the first week and used 
this combined feeding practice for more than 
five months.79 Other estimates of breast
feeding show rates of 24 to 62 percent.80,81
 Baby-bottle tooth decay, due most often to 
extended use of a bottle with formula, milk, 
juice, or soda, affects more than one-half of all 
Native American and Alaska Native children.
 Overweight and obesity are prevalent 
among Native Americans. National data 
suggest obesity rates of 37 percent among 
American Indian adults in 2008, approxi
mately 20 percent above the average for the 
total population.4 In another survey, the 
highest obesity rates were found in Native 
Americans living in Alaska, and the lowest in 
the Pacific Northwest.82 Though definitions of 
overweight and obesity vary in other research, 
the trends are consistent. Group-specific stud
ies report 83 percent of Havasupai subjects 
and 60 percent of Seminole were identified 
as obese; 63 percent of Navajo women and 
33 to 50 percent of Navajo men were over
weight; and 61 percent of Indians residing in 
Oklahoma were overweight or obese.83,84 In 
some groups, such as the Inuit, overweight 
was traditionally desirable as a visible dem
onstration of wealth during times of priva
tion.10 Among the Navajo, elder men and 
women prefer a heavier body shape.85 Studies 
of Native American school children and 
adolescents show consistently higher weight
for-height ratios than for white, black, or 
Hispanic populations, while body mass index 
(BMI) rates over the 85 percentile varied, up 
to 50 percent for girls, and nearly 50 percent 
for boys.79,86,87,88,89
 Figures on obesity contradict some nutri
tional intake data, which show the caloric 
intake of many Native Americans to be nor
mal or less than the recommended dietary 
allowances. Metabolic differences in obese 
Native Americans may be a factor,56,75,117 or 
lower rates of energy expenditure through 
exercise may contribute: American Indians 
and Alaska Natives report lack of leisure
time physical activity at higher rates than any 
other U.S. ethnic group.82,83,84,85,86,87,88,89,90
 However, a study of Hualapai women of 
Arizona indicated that the daily caloric intake 
of obese women was significantly higher than 
for the non-obese women. Sweetened bever
ages and alcoholic beverages accounted for 
the differences. Researchers investigating 
Zuni adolescents suggest that underreport
ing of foods and/or alcohol may account for 
low reported energy intakes.64,69,91,92 Diet
ing behaviors among adult Native American 
women mostly involve healthy approaches 
such as eating more fruits and vegetables 
and exercising more, according to one 
study, although skipping meals, fasting, and 
Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
NATIVE AMERICANS
 disordered eating such as self-induced vomit
ing were also mentioned; 10 percent engaged 
in binge eating. A national survey of Native 
American youth revealed that over 40 per
cent reported binge-eating behavior with 
vomiting rates of 4 to 6 percent. Frequent 
dieting was also common. All disordered eat
ing occurred more frequently among over
weight respondents.93,94
 The incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus, 
especially among some Native Americans of 
the Plains and Southwest, is estimated to 
be between two and four times that of the 
general population. More than 16 percent 
of American Indians and Alaska Natives 
are estimated to have diabetes, which is 
the highest rate of any ethnic group in 
the United States.4 The Pima Indians are 
believed to have the highest rate of type 2 
diabetes in the world, affecting 70 percent of 
all adults over the age of forty-five. Rates of 
the disease among children are also increas
ing substantially, and it has been noted 
that acanthosis nigricans (a patchy darken
ing of the skin) is an independent marker 
for insulin resistance in Native American 
youngsters.95,96,97 The death rate from type 
2 diabetes is more than three times as high 
for Native Americans as for the total popu
lation.98 Notably, diabetes was rare among 
Native Americans fifty years ago.99
 One theory for the high rates of type 2 
diabetes among Native Americans is genetic 
predisposition.100 However, a comparison 
of type 2 diabetes among Pima Indians liv
ing in Arizona and those living in Mexico 
found rates in Arizona to be more than five 
times those found in Mexico, suggesting that 
genetic predisposition alone does not account 
for high prevalence in the United States and 
that a Westernized environment may be a 
factor.101 Research has shown a significantly 
lower plasma insulin level in Pima Indians 
living in Mexico when compared to the U.S. 
Pima population even before diabetes is diag
nosed. The authors state: “This finding under
scores the importance of lifestyle factors as 
protecting factors against insulin resistance in 
individuals with a high propensity to develop 
diabetes.”102 Higher rates of diabetes are found 
among Alaska Natives who have significant 
increased intake of nonindigenous protein 
(e.g., beef, chicken), carbohydrates (e.g., white 
bread, potatoes or rice, soft drinks), and fat 
(e.g., butter, shortening), combined with a 
lower intake of native foods such as salmon, 
caribou, berries, and seal oil; and higher rates 
are found among Pima Indians who con
sume an Anglo diet when compared to Pima 
who consume a traditional diet.103,104 Some 
researchers suggest the difference is due to 
the dietary change from indigenous starches 
to the refined flours and sugars of the adapted 
diet. Traditional starches take longer to digest 
and absorb, leading to lower blood sugar lev
els and insulin responses that may be protec
tive in the development of diabetes.105 Other 
researchers suggest the increased intake of 
fat in the modern Native American diet may 
be responsible for the increase in type 2 dia
betes.106 (See Cultural Controversy—Type 
2 Diabetes, Thrifty Genes, and Changing 
Theories.)
 Associated with obesity and type 2 diabe
tes is a dramatic increase in the prevalence of 
heart disease among Native Americans dur
ing the last twenty-five years; heart disease 
is now the leading cause of death. Rates of 
cardiovascular disease for Native Americans 
have surpassed those of the total popula
tion in many locations, and are often more 
fatal. Additional risk factors include high 
rates of cigarette smoking, alcohol consump
tion, elevated blood lipid levels, obesity, and 
hypertension.
 Chronic kidney disease is also a concern, 
particularly associated with type 2 diabetes, 
with incidence up to twenty times higher than 
in the general population. American Indians 
and Alaska Natives die at higher rates than 
other Americans from tuberculosis, with esti
mates being up to 600 percent higher.2,3,4
 The incidence of alcoholism among Native 
Americans has decreased in recent years, but 
it still remains a significant medical and social 
problem. High unemployment rates and loss 
of tribal integrity, ethnic identity, and self
esteem are frequently cited as reasons for 
substance abuse among both reservation and 
urban Native Americans. The rate for alcohol
related deaths is more than eight times that of 
the general U.S. population.3,4
 Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
CHAPTER 5
 Counseling
 A survey of Native American nurses identi
fied attitudes, skills, and knowledge needed 
to serve Native Americans successfully. They 
listed being open-minded, avoiding ethnocen
trism, and using intercultural communication 
skills, especially the ability to listen carefully 
and to provide respectful silence. Learning 
about the Native American worldview, tra
ditional health beliefs, differences between 
nations, and the history of each group was 
considered essential to effective interac
tion.18,107 Of particular importance is recog
nition of diversity within Native American 
groups and understanding of local culture.
 Access to biomedical health care may be 
limited for some Native Americans because 
of low income or inadequate transporta
tion. Many are also limited to care through 
the Indian Health Service (IHS), which has 
a federal trust to provide health services to 
all Native Americans who are members of 
tribes recognized by the U.S. government. 
It began operation under the BIA in 1924 
and was placed under what is now called 
the Department of Health and Human Ser
vices in 1955.108,109 It has 612 IHS facilities 
(46 hospitals; 494 health clinics) near or on 
reservations, 80 percent tribally operated, 
and 33 urban Indian programs. However, 
the number of Native American health pro
fessionals is limited, and intercultural care is 
the norm rather than the exception in many 
facilities.
 Type 2 Diabetes, Thrifty Genes, and Changing Theories
 Scientific theory sometimes takes on a 
life of its own, existing in the public 
memory long past the time it has been 
modified or disproved. Such is the case with 
the thrifty gene hypothesis. In the 1960s 
when researchers first proposed that certain 
Native Americans might be predisposed to 
developing diabetes mellitus (DM) due to a 
feast-or-famine metabolism compromised 
by a modern diet, type 1 DM had not yet 
been fully differentiated from type 2 DM. 
Four decades later, our understanding of the 
disease has improved, revealing a complex
ity that defies simple explanations.121
 What is now known as type 1 DM results 
from a complete lack of insulin in the body 
and is not correlated to lifestyle. Type 2 DM is 
more common; it is associated with normal 
or reduced levels of insulin and the inability 
to use insulin efficiently, and it is closely 
correlated with obesity and limited physical 
activity. Both types of diabetes result in high 
levels of blood glucose that over time can 
cause lifelong disability and death. Diagnosis 
of type 2 DM has increased by more than 
65percent in the general adult population 
over the past ten years. Long considered 
a disease of middle age, type 2 DM was 
rarely diagnosed in urban pediatric clinics as 
recently as the early 1990s, but type 2 DM is 
now increasing rapidly as a proportion of all 
newly diagnosed cases of diabetes in chil
dren.122 Among Native Americans, prevalence 
rates vary from between 4 and 70 percent of 
adults over the age of forty-five, depending 
on group, with the lowest rates seen in Alaska 
and the highest found in the Southwest. In a 
few Native American groups a unique genetic 
mutation has been identified as the cause, 
as in the Oji-Cree of Canada, who have type 
2DM rates of 40 percent among adults.123
 Yet attempts to find a universal thrifty 
gene that predisposes other Native Americans 
to the disease have been unsuccessful. It was 
initially argued that a metabolism adapted to 
a diet plentiful at times (feast periods) inter
spersed with food shortages (famine periods) 
could not cope with the constant abundance 
of the modern diet, resulting in high insulin 
responses and type 2 DM. The theory col
lapsed when researchers were unable to find 
a specific mechanism that causes an ethnic 
predisposition to developing diabetes. Fur
ther, it has been difficult to totally account 
for high prevalence rates through differences 
in diet and activity levels between diabetic 
and non-diabetic members in certain Native 
American groups.39,44,74,124,125,126
 These data beg the question: Why do 
some Native Americans develop type 2 DM 
at rates many times above that of the white 
U.S. population? Researchers propose that 
the development of type 2 DM is much more 
complex than previously thought, including 
factors in three domains: political-economic 
(such as ongoing stress, unavailability of 
healthy foods, and barriers to health care 
access), etiological (both genetic and non
genetic), and cultural (including traditional 
health beliefs, values regarding body image, 
norms about exercise, etc.).127 Of particular 
interest are theories regarding the roles of 
historical trauma (similar to posttraumatic 
stress syndrome)128 and prenatal adaptation 
to malnutrition and gestational diabetes 
in Native American mothers resulting in 
increased rates of type 2 DM.129 Genes alone, 
thrifty or not, cannot completely explain 
what has become a problem of epidemic 
proportions in much of the Native American 
community.
 CULTURAL CONTROVERSY
 Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
NATIVE AMERICANS
 Some Native Americans hold beliefs that 
cause them to avoid biomedical treatment in 
general. For example, pregnancy is often con
sidered a healthy state, and Native American 
women may not seek prenatal care for this 
reason. Some older Native Americans report 
fear of non–Native American providers, and 
others find biomedical physicians too negative 
because of impersonal care. Disclosure of risks 
may also be regarded as negative, in violation 
of a positive approach to life.110 Some Native 
Americans may be angry about their condi
tion and may blame illnesses such as diabetes 
on a Western conspiracy. Some are suspicious 
of federal and state government and may be 
hesitant to sign any forms.15
 One social worker reports that her clients 
at a dialysis center in Arizona are so accus
tomed to friends and family members with 
kidney failure that they fatalistically expect 
a similar outcome for themselves and are 
sometimes relieved when it finally happens.111
 Research shows that many Native Americans 
believe that renal failure, amputations, and 
blindness are inevitable consequences of dia
betes.98 Traditional attitudes about time may 
cause delays in seeking care—the importance 
of finishing a current project or commitment 
I was born in Oljato, Utah, a rural Navajo reservation located 150 miles 
northeast of Farmington, New Mexico. After graduating from high school, 
I worked as a nurses’ aid in a small, fifteen-bed hospital near my home 
in Utah. Later, I completed a bachelor’s degree in nutrition science at 
the University of Utah and a dietetic internship and a master’s degree 
in public health at the University of California, Berkeley. As a regis
tered dietitian Ihave worked with the Navajo nation for approximately 
twelveyears.
 Briefly, how would you describe the Navajo foods?
 Traditionally, during the fifties, sixties, and early seventies, gardening 
and sheepherding was our livelihood. We hauled all our water and used 
wood-burning stoves for cooking. My parents told us of Navajo native foods 
when they were young, some of which I have never seen. My mother told 
me she spent many days grinding corn for the winter. One stew made by 
parents was ad Alth ta’ nash besh, meaning boiled with several mixtures. 
It had melon seeds, local wild green plants, and a variety of plant seeds, 
and wild onions, and was thickened with corn meal. When I was young we 
grew watermelon, cantaloupe, fresh corn, and summer and winter squash. 
Other favorites included boiled mutton backbone in green chili stew, grilled 
mutton ribs, liver and greater omentum (the fatty tissue that covers the 
stomach) in an open-face sandwich with onions or green chili in a tortilla. 
We may not have had as much mutton as we wanted, but we had plenty of 
fruits and vegetables during the summer months.
 Traditional food eaten today includes corn prepared many different ways 
from fresh to dried or ground into meal in varying degrees of texture. One 
recipe for fresh corn is called “Kneel down Bread” because it is prepared in a 
sitting position. A one-fourth cup of the ground corn is placed in corn leaves, 
wrapped and tied together. It is then placed in a large hole that is dug in the 
ground and is cooked by building a fire on top. All parts of the sheep and 
goat are used for food. This includes the head, intestine, organs, skin, hoofs, 
and blood. Blood sausage and liver sausage are very popular. The stuffed 
intestine is made by wrapping the greater omentum with the intestine. It is 
then grilled on hot coals until crispy.
 Most elderly like simple, unmixed foods. Older people dislike marinated 
meats. They prefer the meats cooked plain. I would say Navajo native food is 
fairly bland, although men like to eat with very hot chili and raw, fresh onions.
 How much has Western food culture influenced 
the current diet?
 In the past three to four decades our diet has changed significantly. Our 
level of physical activity also decreased at the same time. Popular foods now 
include spam, canned meat, cold cuts, ramen noodles, chips, candy, sodas, 
and flavored fruit drinks.
 Are there any foods that would be difficult or easy to 
modify in the diet?
 Yes. Fried bread would be hard to modify. People enjoy the texture of bread 
cooked in hot oil, which makes the recipe difficult to alter. Intestine wrapped 
PRACTITIONER PERSPECTIVES
 Native American
 LORRAINE WHITEHAIR, RD, MPH, RN, CDE •	Worked at Indian Health Services for over ten years,  
Tribal RD for a number of years, and currently works for CDC
 Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
CHAPTER 5
 may outweigh that of keeping an appointment 
with a health provider.
 In general, both verbal and nonverbal com
munication with Native Americans must take 
into account cultural traditions. Among the 
Navajo, the patient should be asked directly for 
his medical history, because even family mem
bers may believe that they have no right to speak 
for another. However, family members are often 
consulted in making medical decisions.
 It is estimated that more than one-half of 
Native Americans speak their native language 
in addition to English. Native American lan
guages are primarily verbal, and some Native 
Americans may experience difficulties with 
written information or instructions. Further, 
some English words, such as germ, may not 
exist in Native American languages.23 It has 
been reported, for example, that increasing 
vegetables in the diet of some Native Ameri
cans has met with resistance because the 
closest equivalent Native American word for 
vegetable is weeds.112 Many Native Americans 
are comfortable with periods of silence in a 
conversation, using the time to compose their 
thoughts or to translate responses. A yes or 
no response may be considered a complete 
answer to a question, and a Native American 
in greater omentum is the one that could be easy to modify. Replace the 
intestinal fat with thick sliced vegetables like onions, carrots, cabbage, green 
peppers, and celery. Ramen noodles, a non-traditional food, are easier to 
modify as well—I suggest to my clients that they add a variety of vegetables 
(frozen and fresh) and muscles from beef, chicken, or pork and decrease the 
serving size, since the noodles contain fat. People seem to like it with fresh 
ginger as well.
 What advice would you give to new RDs working 
with Native Americans?
 Learn about the history of the people. Learn about the way of life then 
and now. The Navajo people value family and community. There is a say
ing which states, “Know who you are and where you came from.” That 
is to know your clan system. Introductions are a very important part of 
interaction with people on the Navajo reservation. As time consuming as 
it may be, establishing good introductions helps establish trust, kinship, 
and credibility. Making a good introduction about your family clan (family 
background) is a cultural practice, and it is believed to help make busi
ness meetings successful. For elderly clients you may address them as your 
mother (Shi ma’) or your father (Shi yes ah’) even though they are not 
related to you.
 For the middle-aged and elderly population, living in harmony with the 
surroundings is important. Parents and grandparents spend a great deal of 
time talking about being respectful of kinship, elderly people, and nature, 
including land and living creatures. We are to look toward living in harmony 
with our surroundings. Illness is often thought of as a result of an interruption 
of harmony.
 We enjoy laughing. There is great pleasure in tastefully teasing when 
appropriate. We have many jokes about life on the reservation, our first 
boarding school experiences, interaction with people in towns, schools, 
and medical clinics, and meeting with public health officials. We have many 
animal stories that are funny, and they also teach. For example, I use this 
story to help teach my clients about diabetes:
 Two Birds
 Two birds, Jay and Woody, lived near the Interstate 40 highway fifty miles 
west of Albuquerque, New Mexico. Jay loves to pick up foods that are 
left by humans who were traveling back on Interstate 40 highway from 
Albuquerque, New Mexico. The most common foods that were left along 
the highway were French fries, hamburgers, shakes, pies, cookies, ice 
cream, fried chicken, biscuits, potato chips, fried bread, and candy bars. 
Jay always invited Woody to help him eat the leftover foods that were 
thrown near the highway. He would tell Woody about the “delicious” food 
he had for the day. He would say, “You do not have to hunt for your food. 
It is there along the road.” Woody told Jay the food he was eating was 
not good for him. Woody faithfully hunted for his food supply. He worked 
to store his food daily so that he would have enough for an emergency 
during the winter months. Daily, Woody flew long distances to get his 
food. Meanwhile, Jay had been steadily gaining weight. He also had dif-food. Meanwhile, Jay had been steadily gaining weight. He also had dif-food. Meanwhile, Jay had been steadily gaining weight. He also had dif
 ficulty flying moderate distances. In the fall both birds wanted to visit 
distant relatives near Albuquerque. Jay was not able to complete the trip 
to Albuquerque. He experienced shortness of breath and exhaustion half 
way to Albuquerque. Jay and Woody decided that Woody should go alone 
to see their distant relatives. In early spring Jay became very ill after a 
flu he had developed following a large snowstorm. He had frequency of 
urination, tiredness, sores on his toes not healing, and blurred vision. His 
doctor told him he had diabetes. Jay took the news very hard. He did not 
want to change his diet. Woody begged Jay to eat more healthfully. In 
the end Jay’s diet changed back to eating whole grains, nuts, and seeds 
to help control his blood sugars. He also had to retrain his wings to fly 
longer distances daily, which helped bring his good cholesterol (HDL) 
in excellent ranges. His doctor was very happy to see Jay living more 
healthfully.
 Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
NATIVE AMERICANS
 may answer “I don’t know” if he or she thinks 
that a question is inappropriate or does not 
wish to discuss the topic. Stories or metaphors 
may be used to make a point.15 Information 
may be withheld until she feels she can trust 
the provider. Saving face and avoiding con
flict are crucial, and a Native American may 
not ask questions during an interview because 
that would suggest that the health care pro
vider was not communicating clearly. Among 
the Navajo, direct questioning by the provider 
suggests that the practitioner is unknowledge
able or incompetent. Open-ended questions 
are preferred. The very concept of a dietary 
interview may be interpreted by some Native 
Americans as interference with their personal 
autonomy. Emphasis on how personal health 
promotes the welfare of the client’s family and 
community can be effective.113
 Nonverbal communication is very sophis
ticated among some Native Americans. It has 
been reported that some children may not be 
taught to speak until other senses are devel
oped.114 A Native American client may expect 
the practitioner to intuit the problem through 
nonverbal techniques rather than through an 
interview.115 Although a smile and a hand
shake are customary, a vigorous handshake 
DISCUSSION STARTERS
 Who Are You? And What Do You Eat?
 After reading about the different regional, traditional Native American diets, decide 
which one you think would be the healthiest. Why? Then decide which one you think 
would taste the best to you. Why? Once you’ve considered the traditional diets, reflect on 
the differences between the traditional diet you see as the healthiest and the contempo
 rary diet of many Native Americans. Consider the following questions:
 ●
 ●
 What needs to be done to improve the diets of many Native Americans today?
 What are the major cultural obstacles in improving contemporary Native 
American
 diets?
 Imagine that you are a member of a research institution that has been asked to recom--
 mend dietary policy for a contemporary Native American community. In a small group, 
compose a list of your major recommendations for such a policy that the majority of 
your group can agree to. Also provide advice to health care professionals serving that 
community about how to implement those dietary changes.
 may be considered a sign of aggressiveness. 
Native Americans often sit at a distance, and 
direct eye contact may be considered rude—
 the health professional should not interpret 
averted eyes as evidence of disinterest. Quiet, 
unhurried conversations are most conducive 
to successful interaction.
 Researchers note that one-on-one diet 
education in a clinical setting is often inef
education in a clinical setting is often inef
education in a clinical setting is often inef
 fective with Native Americans.39 Counseling 
can be improved through recognition of the 
strong oral tradition found in most Native 
American groups. The preferred learning 
style for many Native Americans is in an 
interactive, informal, and cooperative set
ting. Talking with clients, instead of to cli
ents, can improve efficacy. For many Native 
Americans, it is the relationship established 
with the caregiver, not the content of the 
conversation, which is important. The shar
ing of personal stories, in particular, can 
elicit information and address issues that are 
uncomfortable for clients to address directly. 
In group settings, talking circles can be effec
tive because they facilitate communication 
and demonstrate equality among all partici
pants.79,113,116 In the text Cultural Food Prac
tices, it is noted that visual learning is key so 
the use of food models, pictures, or videos 
may be successful as teaching tools.18 Devel
oping a nutrition model that tells the story of 
changes to traditional foodways and resulting 
consequences, using culturally appropriate 
narrative and imagery, has also been recom
mended (Figure 5.1).117
 A client may have misconceptions about 
biomedicine. Because the Navajo health 
system classifies illness by cause rather than 
by symptom, clients may have difficulty 
understanding the necessity for a physical 
exam or medical history. There may also be 
the expectation that medication can cure ill
ness and that an injection is needed for every 
disorder.19 Very low compliance rates among 
some Native Americans on special diets have 
been reported.122 A Native American may be 
confused about recommendations for weight 
loss because slimness is associated with 
disease or witchcraft.
 Native American clients may follow tra
ditional health practices instead of, or in 
Copyright 2018 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part.  WCN 02-200-209
CHAPTER 5
 conjunction with, biomedical therapies.18
 In one rural Navajo community, 62 per
cent of patients received care from “Native 
healers,” defined as a consultation with a 
“medicine man,” and 39 percent used such 
services more than once per year.118 A 
study of Native American veterans found a 
greater use of traditional therapies in areas 
where biomedical facilities were less acces
sible.20 Other research suggests that though 
combining traditional and biomedical 
approaches is common, up to 40 percent of 
some American Indians use only traditional 
healing.119 Some Indians believe a biomedi
cal practitioner is needed to cure any “white 
man’s disease,” and traditional healers, such 
as herbalists and medicine men and women, 
Review Questions
 1. In Native American culture, what is considered 
the cause of illness? How may this influence 
the treatment of a medical disorder such as 
type 2 diabetes?
 2. Pick two regional classifications of traditional 
Native American cuisine. Describe the simi
larities and differences between these two clas
sifications in food and their preparation.
 3. Describe three therapeutic uses of corn and 
one therapeutic use of a non-corn item by 
Native Americans.
 4. What is Indian fry bread? Is it a traditional 
food? Why or why not?
 5. What factors may have increased the incidence 
of type 2 diabetes among Native Americans?
 References
 1. U.S. Health and Human Services, Office of Minor
ity Health. n.d. American Indian/Alaska Native 
profile. Retrieved from http://minorityhealth.hhs
 .gov/ (accessed February 1, 2015).
 2. Public Information Office. 2010. Facts for features: 
American Indian and Alaska Native Heritage 
Month, November 2010. Washington, DC: U.S. 
Census Bureau.
 3. U.S. Health and Human Services, Office of Minor
ity Health. n.d. American Indian/Alaska Native 
profile. Retrieved from http://minorityhealth.hhs
 .gov (accessed January 22, 2011).
 4. Barnes, P.M., Adams, P.F., & Powell-Griner, 
E. 2010. Health characteristics of the American 
Indian or Alaska Native Adult Population: United 
States, 2004–2008. Retrieved from http://www.
 cdc.gov/nchs/data/nhsr/nhsr020.pdf (accessed 
January 20, 2011).
 or shamans, will frequently decline to 
treat conditions unfamiliar to them, refer
ring patients to Westernized health care 
instead.44,112,120 Compliance is most effec
tive when traditional practices are accepted 
and encouraged as an integral part of com
plete care.
 An in-depth interview is necessary to 
determine not only ethnic identity but also 
degree of acculturation. Traditional medical 
beliefs and customs, if practiced, should be 
acknowledged. Personal dietary preferences 
are of special importance due to the variety of 
Native American foods and food habits. Note 
taking may be considered exceptionally rude, 
so memory skills or a tape recorder may be 
preferable during the interview.