Lecture Notes 4-5 - EWS20  Japanese Americans

1 Opening Japan

In 1853, Commodore Matthew Perry visited Japan. When four US navy ships entered the Tokyo Bay, Japanese were terrified and called them “the black ships with evil appearance.” Perry delivered a letter from the US president asking for navigation rights, trade and diplomatic relationship. Japanese and Americans exchanged gifts during his visit. Japan gave swords, fans, silk robes, and porcelain cups while the United States presented guns, telescope, a clock, and a telegraph machine. The exchange indicated the difference between a traditional society and an industrialized country. Perry said that he would come again and use force if Japan did not open to the West. In 1854, Japan and the United States signed the Treaty of Peace and Amity that provided the U.S. with the privileges similar to those acquired by European nations in China. In the following years, Japan signed many unequal treaties with Western countries.

2 The Meiji Restoration of 1868-1912

Japan was not a unified country for a long time. During the Tokugawa Dynasty (1600-1868), the emperor had no real authority. The most powerful man was the military ruler called “shogun.” In 1868, when the old emperor passed away, some young, ambitious political reformists worked together and overthrew the “shogun.” They gave the power back to the emperor -- the 14 years old Meiji Emperor (named Mitsuhito), and made him a paramount leader of Japan. Smart and ambitious, Meiji Emperor began a new chapter of Japanese history. The capital was relocated to Tokyo which means “eastern capital.” His famous statement was “We have no history. Our history begins today.” He made local feudal lords give up their power and dismissed their private armies. He built a centralized government, established a new national army and navy, and pushed forward a series of social reforms in Japan. Under him, changes were taking place in almost every aspects of Japanese society. Education was reformed; farming became commercialized; industrialization speeded up; and military forces were expanded and modernized.

3 Land Tax Policy

The chief financial support to the new regime came from the land tax which used to be based on the percentage of harvest and varied year by year. In 1873, Japan issued an important land tax policy. The new land tax required all farmers to pay 3% of the fixed assessment of the value of the land made by the government regardless of their harvest situation or the price of crop that year. When farmers could not pay the tax in cash and on time, they lost their farms and became laborers (tenants). In 1873, land tax made 90% of all tax revenues and 70% of all fiscal revenues that year. The policy made many farmers bankrupt. By 1880-90, about 40% of farmers lost their land and became tenants; the figure rose to 45% in the next decade (Chan); and 300,000 of them lost their land in the late 19th century. (Takaki). Many of them became urban laborers. It was the agricultural tax that paid the bill of the modernization of Meiji Japan. 

4 The Conscription Laws

Under Meiji government, Japan established a powerful national army. In 1837 the military service law required all males aged 17 to 40 for military service except for the only son, grandson, adopted son, head of a family, and the rich people who could afford to pay a substitute fee of 270 yen. In 1889, after repeated amendments, Japanese law required every male aged from 17 to 40, to serve. It was a three-year service and four-year reserve. Before1908, those who wanted to defer military service could emigrate abroad as student or laborers. Through its military service law, Japan quickly established a power military force. The goal of the Meiji was to make Japan a “rich country with a strong army.”

5 Reforms in Education

Beginning from the Meiji Dynasty, schools in Japan began to abandon traditional ways of teaching. Confucius philosophy became less and less influential. Classic literature and history gave away to the teaching and learning of science, technology, or training of industrial skills. The Imperial Tokyo University was established in 1869 which pipelined elite graduates for foreign affairs and government staff members. Compulsory education for grade 6 reached 95 percent of the population by 1905. Modern schools offered foreign studies and English language classes. Japanese leaders went to Europe and America to learn about Western ideas, schools and technology. Europeans and Americans were brought in to train Japanese engineers, scientists, manufacturers, even soldiers, and sailors.

6 Study Abroad

Many Japanese students went to Europe while some came to the United States including some government-sponsored students and from wealthy families. Japanese students were pioneer immigrants. From 1880-90, California had about 2,500 Japanese and most of them were “school boys” in San Francisco. They often had a live-in arrangement with an American family in exchange for room, board, plus a nominal wage. Working as domestic labor, a school-boy kindled fire, boiled water, cooked meals, set the table, cleaned the dishes and did other house chores. Most of them worked through their education. Many did not finish their education and become labor contractors when large scale Japanese migration began.


7 Industrialization

The Ministry of Industry was established in 1870.The first rail road was built in 1872 connecting Tokyo and Yokohama. Several other railroads quickly followed up. By 1880, all major cities were linked by telegraph lines and a postal system. By 1890, the country had more than 200 steam-powered factories, and electronic lighting system and electronic street cars were developed. Japan was an island country and all the important areas were linked by sea routs, and were able to produce steamships. Modern coal and iron mining industry was developed. Silk and textile factories were established. Many urban laborers were women. By 1910 60% of all workers in Japan were women. With a powerful army and navy, Japan was rising rapidly as an imperialist country.

8 Political Control

In 1887, the government issued a “Peace Preservation Law” and a policy to expel any person from the capital city if that person was considered a threat to public tranquility. Japan established a two-house parliament called “Diet” consisting of the House of Peers (consisting of Noble family members) and the Low House which exercised most of the power. The Low House was elected by qualified adult male property owners which was less than 1 percent of the total population. Military, police personnel, teachers, students, and others were not allowed to attend political meetings and join political organizations.

9 Timing of Japanese Immigration

In 1868-9, about 149 Japanese arrived in Hawaii as laborers but they were treated so poorly that Japanese government decided to ban migration altogether. In 1882, the first Chinese exclusion law was passed while agri-business owners in Hawaii still needed Asian laborers. In 1870, production of sugar in Hawaii was 9,392 tons. In 1880, it was increased to 31,792 tons. In 1882-3, Hawaii sugar plantation owners sent representatives to Japan and requested immigrant laborers. In 1885, Japanese government lifted the immigration ban. Japanese laborers began to arrive. By 1900, sugar production grew to 300,000 tons. In 1875, cultivated plantation lands in Hawaii was 12,000 acres. By 1910 it grew to 214,000 acres. (Takaki).


10 Robert Walker Irvin and Japanese Labor

Robert Irvin was a consul general representing the US government in Hawaii. He was also a special agent of the Board of Immigration for the Kingdom of Hawaii, and a US adviser to the Japanese government. His three positions illustrates how Asian labor, US immigration policy, and the development of plantation agriculture were linked together. Irvin had two friends in Japan -- Inoue Kaoru, the foreign minister, and Masuda Takashi, a businessman. He negotiated an Irvin Convention with Japan, which was a three-year contract between plantation owners and Japanese laborers. The owners would deposit 25% of all wages with the Japanese consulate in Honolulu to guarantee that the laborers would be paid and could return. The plantation owners would cover transportation, lodging, fuel, medical care and interpretation service of the visa work though the owners often passed those cost on to the laborers.

11 Labor Recruiting Process

Beginning from 1894, private companies took over recruiting responsibilities under the government regulations. An agent in a recruiting company selected the laborers himself, handled remittances, acted as a broker between the immigrant families and the company, charged fees for visa, passports, purchased tickets, arranged medical examinations. Some companies set up boarding houses near the harbors. Recruiting agents, representatives of Hawaiian Sugar Planters’ Association (organized in 1895) and officers of US Immigration Bureau worked hand in hand with inspectors, doctors, and interpreters as the Japanese processed their immigration papers. There were about 30 companies with numerous branch offices sending immigrants to Hawaii, California as well as other regions where agriculture needed Asian laborers. Japanese also went to Australia, Guadeloupe, the Fiji Islands, Peru, Mexico, Brazil, and Canada. Japanese migration illustrates how Asian laborers were organized, used and exploited in the world capitalist system.



Lecture 5 Japanese Americans Part 2

12 Geographical and Demographic Background of Japanese Immigrants

Japanese came from four prefectures in the southwestern part of Japan -- Hiroshima, Yamaguchi, Kumamoto and Fukuoka. From 1894 to 1908, about 125,000 Japanese were recruited from the four districts and sent to Hawaii. About 15% of them were women. Additional 17,000 people went to Hawaii on themselves. When the 1900 Organic Law made Hawaii a formal U.S. territory, the entry of contract laborers became illegal. Arriving laborers had to prove they were free immigrants, each with a minimum of $50 in pocket. Rather than the poorest areas, the four districts were coastal regions being rapidly industrialized. Ujina Harbor in Yamaguchi began to function as a transportation center in 1884. Hiroshima Cotton Spinning Company was set up in 1882, though Hiroshima had the smallest amount of land per household and per individual. The Japanese often organized their credit-rotation associations often based on their home areas. Japanese came not as socially unrelated individuals for American dreams but as immigrant laborers for the need of American plantation economy. Most Japanese were young, able-bodied males; 40 to 60% of them were in their 20s; and 25% in their 30s.

13 American Wage and Return Rate

As plantation laborers in Hawaii, initially men were paid 9 dollars a month; women 6; later men were paid 15 dollars and women 9 dollars a month. Their working time in the fields was 10 hours a day or 12 hours in the mills for 26 days a month. But compared with situation in Japan, plantation monthly wages were twice the earnings of skilled artisans in Japan and six times what farmers could make. Consequently when Japanese government announced 600 immigrant slots for first shipment to Hawaii in 1885, it received 28,000 applications. By 1894 about 30,000 government contracted laborers arrived in Hawaii. (Takaki.45) Between 1885-94, 44% Japanese stayed while 46% returned home; 3% of them left for the mainland US; and 7% died in Hawaii.(Okiocha) According to Takaki, labor migration reflected one social tradition in Japan – “one to sell, one to follow, and one in reserve.” The one-to-sell refers to women and the one reserve refers to the eldest son. But among the male immigrants, many were also the eldest sons who had the right (primogeniture) to inherit family property and obligation to take care of parents.

14 Japanese in Mainland US

There were more Japanese in Hawaii than in the mainland US. By 1890, 8 years after Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, there were only 2,039 Japanese on the U.S. mainland. In 1908 there were 150,000 Japanese in Hawaii while there were 55,000 in California. But more and more Japanese wanted to come to California. Plantation work was depressing and had no future. From 1908-1924, 120,000 Japanese landed in California while 48,000 entered Hawaii.(Chan) By 1924, while there were 200,000 Japanese in Hawaii, there were 180,000 in the US mainland.(Takaki)  Relationship between Japanese immigrants and Japan was close. Japanese Association of America had direct linkage with Japanese government. On February 4th 1908, the Japanese Association of America in San Francisco was established taking care of Japanese in central and northern California. In 1911, the Japanese Association in Portland was set up in charge of Japanese immigrants in Oregon and Idaho. In 1913, Northwest American Japanese Association in Seattle was established to handle things in Washington and Montana. In 1915 the Central Japanese Association of Southern California in Los Angeles was established to look after things in Southern California, New Mexico, and Arizona.  In addition, branches existed in Colorado, Utah, Texas, Illinois, and New York.(Chan) 

15 Class Difference between Labor Contractors and Laborers

Within Japanese immigrant community, social relationship was more than ethnicity or kinship. Class difference could be sharp between Japanese laborers and labor contractors. From 1890 to 1907, labor contracting system was the way to organize Japanese laborers in U.S. mainland. Many of the contractors were from former students studying in America with more literacy and better English ability. The contractors distributed laborers to farms, railroad construction work, lumber mills or fishing processing factories. Railroad was probably the largest contracting business. In 1906, 13,000-14,000 Japanese were hired in railroad construction or section hands throughout the western states, 2,200 in sawmills in Oregon and Washington, 3,600 in salmon canneries in Alaska, Oregon and Washington, 2,000 in mining in Wyoming, Utah, and Colorado, 22,000 to 26,000 in service or small business trade. The relationship was exploitative; contractors for the railroad business were on the payroll of the companies but received their income from fees assessed on the wages of the laborers. It was a daily 10 cent charge from $1.25 wage in 1892. In some cases, a contractor's monthly income could be $2,600 based on a 26 working days a month. Moreover the contractors rented or purchased Japanese inns, boarding houses to provide food and lodging, set up "translation office", groceries, monetary remittances, and medical clinic service for fees. Open clashes between the contractors and the laborers were rare because the laborers were not familiar with American society.

16 Assimilation and Ethnic Pride

As early as 1892, when Japanese worked on railroad sections, community leaders asked Japanese workers to wear American work clothes. (In Japan, laborers often wore “loincloth” or a bath-robe in hot weather.) Business men or labor contractors often used English rather than Japanese signs; Japanese wives were advised to walk side by side with husbands; Japanese children were encouraged to be Americanized. American holidays were observed. Assimilation was linked to Japanese nationalism. Japanese wanted to prove that they were better than the “degraded” Chinese and they were as equal and good as Americans. They were proud of their home country. Japanese scholars were invited to make lecture tours to talk about Japanese culture. Beginning from 1908, community leaders launched campaigns to eliminate gambling and prostitution. They issued notices of warning and posted them in the stores, bathhouses, bars or pool halls. Or they released gamblers’ names in the local Japanese newspapers. In 1915, the anti-gambling campaign had a distinct anti-Chinese character.

17Japan as an Imperialist Country

During WWI (1914-18) Japan declared war on Germany, issued 21 demands to China, demanding the control of Northeast China, and a take-over of all privileges Germany had in Shandong Province in North China. Chinese Americans started a boycott of Japan-made goods imported into America. In response, Japanese American leaders called a Japanese boycotting of Chinese gambling houses and other small businesses. They also tried to get rid of Japanese prostitutes, especially those who worked in Chinatown area. Beginning from 1913, Japanese community leaders emphasized the idea of permanent settlement and adaptation. They viewed Chinese as low-class laborers, an inferior race, and thought themselves as a better race.

18 Racial Environment for Japanese Americans

Japanese immigrants went through similar racial discrimination in America. In February 1905 the San Francisco Chronicle launched its front-page editorial crusade against the influx of Japanese labor. On March 10, 1905, the San Francisco Labor Council with the support of Mayor Eugene Schmitz, called for boycott against Japanese merchants and the whites who hired Japanese. On May 7th, 1905, the Japanese and Korean Exclusion League was organized. Later its name was changed into the Asiatic Exclusion League. In a statement, the League declared: “We have been accustomed to regard the Japanese as an inferior race, but are now suddenly aroused to our danger. They are not window cleaners and house servants. The Japanese can think, can learn, can invent. We have suddenly awakened to the fact that they are gaining a foothold in every skilled industry in our country. They are our equal in intellect; their ability to labor is equal to ours. They are proud, valiant and courageous, but they can underlive us...  We are here to prevent that very competition.” The rise of Japan and the rapidly growing Japanese immigrant population made Japanese the target of the “Yellow Peril” discussion in American newspapers and journals. Japanese were called “chinks” and “japs.” They were stoned, cursed and spit on the streets. They were refused at barbershops, restaurants, housing rental, public swimming pools and theaters. Japanese labor camps were sometimes attacked by the white laborers. Racism against the Japanese was verbal, physical, cultural, and institutional.

19 School Segregation and Racial Politics

After the 1906 earthquake in San Francisco, Japanese residents of “Little Tokyo” moved into white neighborhoods. White families resented them and asked them to leave. On October 11, 1906, the San Francisco School Board ordered all 93 Japanese and Korean children in public schools to transfer into the segregated Oriental school in Chinatown. Japanese government quickly sent a protest saying such action violated a treaty provision that Japanese children had equal education privilege in the United States. Japan defeated Russia in 1905 in a navy battle. President Theodore Roosevelt was impressed by the Japanese victory. He scolded the School Board of San Francisco for the segregation policy and even arranged that troops were deployed if riot would arise against the Japanese community. But Roosevelt quickly balanced racial politics by issuing the 589 Executive Order on March 14, 1907. The Executive Order prohibited any alien from entering the U.S. via its insular possessions, the Canal Zone, or another foreign country -- from Hawaii or Mexico to the mainland. The Order actually meant to stop Japanese from coming to mainland US from Hawaii. The Japanese ambassador quietly gave consent to this Order.

20 The Gentlemen’s Agreement and Japanese Laborers

The United States was determined to stop Japanese labor migration. During 1907-08, American ambassador started negotiation with Japanese foreign minister about Japanese migration. The exchange notes between the two was known as the Gentlemen's Agreement, becoming effective in 1908. Japan could only issue passports to  merchants, students, diplomats, and tourists, bona fide Japanese residents in the U.S. who returned to visit Japan and wished to go back to the U.S.; parents, wives, and children of such residents, or “settled agriculturists” meaning farmers. Like Chinese, Japanese labor immigrants were banned. Most Japanese laborers were single males. From 1860s to 1900, there were 1,195 to 2,056 Japanese prostitutes widely dispersed along the Pacific Coast and in western states, very mobile, often following Asian labor camps. Japanese prostitution was an organized traffic and were brought over to America by Japanese contractors. In San Francisco, they served the white, the Chinese, and the Japanese. Many Japanese laborers did not have family life.

21 Picture Brides and Immigrants’ Marriage

Japanese government was keenly aware that many Japanese immigrants were single males, especially in California. It wanted to promote migration of Japanese women and enable Japanese laborers to have family life. In the Gentlemen’s Agreement, it strategically retained a loophole: parents, wives, and children of laborers already in America would be allowed to come. Many Japanese men mailed back their photos to families and friends in Japan asking for interested women. After exchanging photos and a number of “love letters,” marriage took place. From the 1910s to the 1920s many Japanese women came as “picture brides.” Many picture-brides or wives came from the cities with obvious American and European presence and influence. Picture brides were in their twenties with some level of education, and often 10 to 15 years younger than their husbands. Japanese Consulate required that businessmen had annual income of 1,200 dollars, and farmers with annual profit of $400 to $500; and both should have a saving of $1,000. After 1915, laborers became eligible too with savings of $800. They needed bank certificate to prove that. Age gap between men and women was not a result of Japanese cultural tradition but due to the fact that older Japanese men had adequate saving as they had worked longer.

22 “Arranged Marriage,” Wedding Politics and the Ladies Agreement

Japanese government arranged many details of such marriage. It made sure that picture wives’ names entered into the husbands’ family registries 6 months before the passport applications. After 1915, the government made sure that their age should be no more than 15 younger than the husbands. The government administered physical exams to make sure that they were healthy women. From Japanese perspective, they were legal wives as long as the husbands had their names enter into their own family registries; and family genealogy, wealth, education, and health information was exchanged. US Immigration office also played important roles in this “arranged marriage.” Most picture wives took third class passenger tickets. Upon their arrival, they went through strict interviews and answered many tough questions. Their husbands must appear in person with certificates issued by Japanese consulate, employment proof, and bank deposit certificates. Before 1917, American government did not recognize picture prides as married “wives.” Japanese husbands and wives were taken to nearby churches, hotel lobbies or at an immigration office for a US government’s arranged wedding ceremony. On March 1, 1920, US government imposed the Ladies Agreement to Japan in order to stop picture brides though at that time there were still 24,000 Japanese single adult males who needed wives but they were laborers and could not meet the $800 requirements. 

23 Japanese Women and Gender Ratio

Picture Brides had many cultural shocks upon their arrival. Their husbands did not look like what they appeared in the photos. They were much older in age and had a lot lower economic status than they claimed. Instead of hotel owners they were in fact boarding house keepers. Instead of farm owners, they were sharecroppers. Instead of merchants they were peddlers. Elevator technicians were actually hotel bellboys. Labor contractors were railroad foremen. But majority of the picture brides remained with the husbands. Takaki believes Japanese women were more receptive to emigration abroad because of the social changes in Japan. By 1900, women composed 60% of Japan’s industrial labor force. Japanese women in the rural area left home as commonly as men. Daughters of farming families constituted 80% of the labor force in textile industry. Women were also hired as construction laborers, coal miners carrying loads of coal out of the tunnels on their backs. Japanese women adapted to American society faster than expected. Gender ratio in Japanese American community became much more balanced than Chinese Americans. In 1905, Japanese females were 22 % Japanese population in Hawaii and 7 percent on the mainland US.  From 1908 to 1924, 66,926 Japanese women entered Hawaii and the mainland. During 1911 and 1920 women represented 39% of Japanese immigrants. By 1920, 46% Japanese in in Hawaii were women and 34.5% in the mainland. (Takaki.47)

24 Japanese Women and Community Formation

Shortly after they arrived, Japanese women worked side by side with men on the farms and plantations. In cities, they entered into their husbands' small business such as laundries, bathhouses, bars, markets, restaurants, boarding houses, or pool halls. Or they could be also domestic servants, cannery workers. 20.8% of them over 15 were gainfully employed in 1920 compared 9% of all married women employed in U.S. (Glenn) Japanese community quickly became a family-oriented community. Children (Nisei) was growing fast. In 1910, there were only 4,502 Nisei. By 1920 the number was 29,672 which multiplied many times. By 1930 Japanese American community was evenly divided between Issei (1st generation) and Nisei. According to Takaki, Japanese from 1908 to 1924, Japanese demonstrated a clear intention to settle down in America.

25 Japanese in Farming

In the early 20th century, California was transformed into a major agri-business state, producing wheat, vegetables and fruits for the East Coast or European markets. The development of irrigation opened the way for intensive agriculture and the shift from grain crops to fruit and vegetable production. Between 1879 and 1909, the value of crops representing intensive agriculture skyrocketed from only 4% to 50% of all crops grown in California. Meanwhile, fresh fruit and vegetable distribution was made possible by the completion of continental railroads and the invention of refrigerator car. Following the Chinese, Japanese worked in agriculture in California. In 1917, Japanese in California produced almost 90% of the state's output of celery, asparagus, onions, tomatoes, and berries, 70% of the floricultural products, 50% of seeds, 45% of the sugar beets, 40% of leafy vegetables, and 35% of the grapes.

26 Farming for Social Mobility and Settlement.

Some Japanese immigrants accomplished social mobility through farming. There were four stages of Japanese farming mobility. Beginning from 1894, contract farmers recruited laborers who earned wages through labor. Large scale farming such as sugar beets, beans, potatoes or others needed contract laborers. Then some immigrants began share-tenancy and shared profit of the crops. If the landowners provided only land, the share was 50-50. If they provided horses, supplies, their share was greater. It required some capital and was also more profitable. The third stage was cash-leasing from 1 to 10 years. The method of payment was in 2 installments. When the lease was signed, the first payment was due and the second was due after the harvest. When some Japanese accumulated enough capital, they would enter the fourth stage and purchase the land. By 1918, the total Japanese agriculture population was 38,011 or 55.1 % of total Japanese population 68,982 in California. Abiko Kyutaro was a labor contractor who actively advocated Japanese settlement in America. He ran his own newspaper and purchased 3,200 acres land in Livinston and then subdivided into 40 acres parcel and resold to other Japanese farmers. Japanese community leaders believed that sojourner mentality hurt the image of the Japanese, and recommended permanent residency through farming. Japanese wanted to be settlers.