Sam began his farming career around
 1918, when he took over the management of his father’s farm, located at 4660
 Whitsett Avenue in North Hollywood. Asparagus farming was a long-term
 investment and required fairly sophisticated skills. Usually an asparagus farm
 could not produce a yield until at least the third year. Although the Chang
 family did not use the entire farm to grow asparagus, still enough land was
 involved that it was a challenge for Sam to make sure the farm would yield
 asparagus on time under his management. This farm was the first land prop
erty the family owned in America, and the capital investment included money
 from relatives and friends. As a filially devoted son, Sam could not let his
 father down in this job.
 As Sam had no farming experience, he began by experimenting, visit
ing other Chinese asparagus farms, making notes on his observations, and
 acquiring skills from other farmers. To learn and observe how to grow as
paragus, Sam visited farms of other Chinese in Southern California and some
times went as far as Stockton and the Sacramento Valley, where asparagus
 was grown on a large scale and had been a profitable commercial crop farmed
 by many Chinese since 1892.1 Sam’s farming career thus is part of the col
lective Chinese asparagus farmers’ experience.
 When Sam took over the responsibility for the family farm, he tasted the
 hardship of being a small, independent produce farmer. He wrote to a friend:
 I have been a farmer for three years. Life is boring and business is
 bad. My farm is losing money. Every day I have to get up at six in
 the morning and finish work late in the evening. I am terribly busy.
 I am sorry to write you back [only now,] after you have written me
 three letters. But I have no time to write. I can write to you today
 100
Asparagus Farming as a Family Business
 101
 because it has been raining continuously and I cannot work in the
 field.2
 As the manager of the farm, Sam often worked in the field side by side with
 his workers from morning until sunset, because he felt that he needed to ac
cumulate farming experience, supervise the workers, and, more important,
 save on labor costs. Working in the fields was a hardship he had never expe
rienced in his police career in China.
 During the first few years of his farming career, Sam on several occa
sions wanted to switch to another business. In 1922, he wrote to his second
 brother in China:
 The soil is too poor and growing asparagus can hardly make any
 profit. Many friends and relatives advised me to give it up and try
 something else. If I switch to the warehouse business serving the
 Mexicans, I may have a more reliable job. But it will be difficult for
 Father to find someone to replace me. Father also found it difficult
 to hire more help for me. So someone from our family should come
 to help. We should try to get Cousin Wei and Yuan to come here,
 too.3
 In his other letters, Sam frequently complained about the lack of profits and
 the need for capital, but also indicated his progress in farming. In November
 1924, he wrote to his son Tennyson, still in China at that time:
 In the last couple of years, the asparagus farm is getting better and
 finally beginning to make some profit. I plan to leave the farming
 career and find some other job so that I can make enough money
 for Yuhua’s and your education and spare your grandfather from this
 tuition burden.4
 The letter indicates again that Sam wanted to switch to another career and
 did not make much money, as Yitang helped him pay his children’s tuition in
 China. However, he continued to work on the farm since his father wanted
 him to stay.
 Like raising most vegetable crops, growing asparagus was an arduous
 and labor-intensive job. The harvest season usually lasted from March to Sep
tember in Southern California, with April to July the busiest period. In his
 farming notes, Sam wrote:
 If the soil is sandy, then the asparagus will not grow very well. I use
 a lot of fertilizer as my land is sandy. Each acre needs about a half
102
 The Transnational History
 pound of seed. Whether sowing by hand or by machine, planting
 should not be too dense. Water the field every two weeks, with some
 fertilizer. If the weather is warm, the asparagus will mature in mid
February. If it is cold, the crop will be about twenty days late. When
 the asparagus has grown to seven or eight inches, it is ready for cutting.
 If it is longer than that, it will not sell very well on the market.5
 The cutting of asparagus was a delicate and arduous job, as the farmer had
 to be very selective about size. Asparagus spears that were too short would
 be sorted into a lower grade, while spears that were too long would be con
sidered too old for sale on the market.
 Harvesting first-grade asparagus, a good laborer could cut only one acre
 per day. For the second grade, one laborer could do two acres a day. And for
 the third grade, one laborer could handle three acres. Although the Chang
 family invested in twenty-five acres of land, Sam only used nine acres to grow
 asparagus, in the beginning. For this acreage, he hired five to six laborers
 plus himself. Once his wife and daughter joined him in 1923, they helped
 with cutting and with sorting, as well. During a warm season, the harvesting
 had to be more intensive, because the crop would grow fast. On the other
 hand, frost and wind could hurt the harvesting. The most backbreaking work,
 though, was digging up the asparagus root when the yield declined: after a
 farm had produced a yield for ten to twelve years, the farmer had to com
pletely dig up the asparagus roots and plant new seed (the new field would
 not produce, however, until after the third year).
 Under Sam’s careful management, the farm began to yield asparagus
 in the third year. He became a master asparagus farmer and could handle as
paragus growing on both rich soil and sandy land. In addition, he planted
 many other agricultural crops, including potatoes, sweet corn, hay, alfalfa,
 sweet potatoes, squash, pumpkin, watermelon, cabbage, and cauliflower. In
 a more optimistic letter, he wrote to his son:
 Now the farm business is getting better. After the deduction of vari
ous costs, we have made a profit of about two to three thousand dol
lars. Moreover, the price of land is now six to seven times higher
 than before. This investment could allow your grandfather to rely on
 the farm for his retirement. He plans to visit China in the fall and
 stay there for several months. After he comes back from his trip to
 China, I will find my own way of making money to support you chil
dren and your education.6
Asparagus Farming as a Family Business
 103
 When the farm began to be profitable and the value of the land went up con
siderably, it became a symbol of success for an immigrant Chinese family in
 “Gold Mountain” (the United States). Together with herbal medicine, aspara
gus farming enabled the Changs to sponsor many family members’ immi
gration to America. Sam did not make much money for himself, but he placed
 the collective interest of the Chang family above his own. He farmed for more
 than fifty years after beginning to work for his father. He sometimes wanted
 to explore other career opportunities and often talked about returning to China,
 but his strong sense of family obligation made him a life-long asparagus
 grower in America. The two farms under his management became a reliable
 source of family income, provided job opportunities for immigrant relatives
 and friends, and turned the once-novice into an experienced member of the
 local agricultural community. Sam’s farming career transformed him from a
 sojourner into a settler. It was his motivation to succeed in a new career, his
 commitment to family interest, and his sacrifice of his own dream that made
 him a permanent resident of America.
 Second Farm
 Following the success of the first farm, the Chang family had become
 confident in asparagus farming, and interested in real estate property as the
 value of land in Southern California increased rapidly, beginning in the early
 twentieth century. In January 1928, the family purchased its second aspara
gus farm, this one at Hayvenhurst Avenue in Northridge in the San Fernando
 Valley. Sam wrote to his children:
 Together with Mr. Zhang and Yan, both of whom are from Enping
 County, your grandfather has purchased Mr. Tan’s asparagus farm.
 Grandfather and your third uncle had visited the farm. A Western
 broker highly recommended this property. Thirty-eight acres of the
 farm have already yielded asparagus for four years. The price of the
 farm is fifty-three thousand dollars. Zhang and Yan will pay a total of
 twenty thousand dollars. Our family will pay the rest in three years.7
 Asparagus farming was profitable, but required substantial investment. The
 Chang family was able to purchase the new farm and expand their farming
 business because family members had shared risks and profits in the first
 farm, used underpaid family labor, and accumulated experience and capital.
 Although the family’s own capital was still modest, Sam had become an ex
perienced farmer and was thus able to invite investments from other Chinese
104
 The Transnational History
 families. A typical way for Chinese immigrants to build and develop their
 family business was to pool resources, work as both owner/manager and la
borer, and form partnership with one another.
 Sam and other Chinese asparagus farmers bought their farms during a
 period when Asians were not allowed to own land. California had passed the
 Alien Land Act in 1913, forbidding Asian immigrants from owning land or
 leasing it for over three years. Chinese farmers needed to bypass this racist
 policy with strategies such as using their native-born children’s names or es
tablishing a stock-dividend company. Yitang’s second wife, and his children
 with her, were American-born Chinese. In an immigration interview, Sam in
dicated that the property of the Chang family in San Fernando Valley was
 registered under Yitang’s daughter’s name.8 Their farms also involved minor
 partners who were American-born Chinese, for property registration purposes.
 However, some immigrant Chinese farmers, according to Sam’s recollection,
 did run into trouble. A Chinese named Zhao Song was banned from farming
 after he leased twenty acres of land in Van Nuys. Through a lawyer’s arrange
ment, Zhao managed to gain the exclusive rights to market the crop while
 having somebody else farm it. Another farmer, named Chew, had a similar
 experience. When his attempt to lease forty acres of land for growing pota
toes was rejected, his attorney helped him obtain a contract to buy and mar
ket the farm’s produce for three years. Thus Chew was still able to make a
 net income of forty thousand dollars, and later he managed to buy one hun
dred acres of land in Van Nuys.9 As asparagus farming was a long-term in
vestment, Chinese farmers preferred to buy or lease their land.
 The opportunities for the Chinese to purchase land in the San Fernando
 Valley probably arose from speculative land swindles of the early twentieth
 century. Land profiteers quietly bought up 108,000 acres of previously
 unirrigated land in the San Fernando Valley at prices of five, ten, and twenty
 dollars per acre, and then, after Los Angeles built an aqueduct to transport
 irrigation water from the Owens Valley to irrigate the San Fernando Valley
 land, sold their holdings for five hundred to one thousand dollars per acre.10
 Regardless of the restrictive Alien Land Act, the Chinese asparagus farmers
 aptly grasped the opportunity to purchase property from the land syndicate
 eager to sell its holdings. Irrigation for the Changs’ second farm became avail
able in 1930, two years after the family brought it.
 The second farm was about forty acres. Two blocks away was the farm
 owned by Hu Zhu, another Chinese asparagus farmer. Hu was probably one
 of the wealthiest Chinese farmers in Southern California. According to Sam,
 Hu’s farm was worth between three hundred thousand and four hundred thou
Asparagus Farming as a Family Business
 105
 sand dollars.11 After Sam moved to the Hayvenhust Street farm, the two fami
lies became good neighbors. They often visited each other, shared farming
 experiences, and helped each other in business. When his own business was
 slack, Sam helped the Hu family with their asparagus sales, charging a mod
est service fee. In a letter to his son, he wrote: “The money I have sent you
 is my wage from Hu Zhu. Last month, I made some money when I helped
 him sell his asparagus. The wage is four cents a case, which is low. It should
 be five cents a case. After I sold my asparagus, I usually help Hu with his
 sales.”12 After the Chang family purchased the second farm, Sam became
 more involved in the operation of the Chinese Asparagus Association of
 Southern California. He wrote:
 I was elected as the president of the Asparagus Association. I don’t
 want this job. But I was elected and have to do it. The office budget
 is seventy-five dollars a month, but I don’t have a salary, and there
 is a lot of work to do. This year’s asparagus market is better since
 the production in Sacramento is reduced.13
 Although he complained about the workload as the association’s president,
 he knew the association was an important organization for Chinese aspara
gus farmers in Southern California and that it promoted sales of members
 through its own marketing system. Sam served as its president for three terms.
 During the harvest season, farmers were responsible for hiring their own
 hands to cut and pick up the asparagus from the fields and sort the crop into
 grades in the packinghouse. Every Chinese farmer’s home had a packing
house, and a stable for horses and wagons. To save on labor costs, family
 members often helped with the sorting. Sam’s wife, though coming from a
 wealthy family, always worked in the packinghouse. When his daughters be
came teenagers, they helped Sam pack two hundred cases a day (though they
 usually worked only during weekends). Each family would, in the late evening,
 deliver the crop to an agriculture market in Los Angeles for the next day’s
 sale. All sales went through the collective efforts of the Association, although
 each farmer could market produce under a different brand name. At this time,
 Sam grew the most widely marketed brand of asparagus: the Emerald Brand.
 Sam built a new, spacious, and comfortable house on the second farm.
 It had modern furnishings and a tiled bathroom with a tub. Shortly afterward,
 the family also bought their first car in the United States—a Model-T Ford.
 Sam was especially happy about the car, as it could help him commute be
tween farms. In a 1928 letter to his son, Sam referred to the new home with
 evident pride:
106
 The Transnational History
 The house has electricity, a telephone, an electric stove, a bathroom
 with tub and tile floor, and so on. We have a beautiful front garden
 and a large back yard. It is very comfortable. We have also bought a
 car. When you come to the United States, I can drive you to school.
 It was so difficult for me to take care of everything on the two farms
 when we did not own a car. But we still need more capital. The la
bor cost us too much and the workers are lazy. Next year we should
 buy a car for the old farm.14
 The second farm was a good investment and began to yield crops soon after
 the Chang family took over. Although Sam still worried about capital flow
 and labor costs, he became more confident about farming. The Chang fam
ily went on to lease several dozen acres of land to expand their asparagus
 business.15
 The house Sam built on the new farm gave him a firm sense of home
 in the United States. When his youngest daughter, Joyce (Yuzai), was born
 in May 1928, he sounded happy in a letter to his son and daughter about the
 birth of the baby, and optimistic about his life.
 I am now very busy with my work on two farms. Your mother gave
 birth to a new baby girl on May 27. As I need to take care of many
 things, I did not write to you for two-and-a-half months. We call the
 baby Yuzai, meaning “planting jade.” She looks like Yuhua. Yuchu
 looks like Tingxun. Your mother is in good health. Yuzai is, too. We
 will send you her photo in one or two months. Your mother’s previ
ous labor was very difficult. It was smooth this time, because we
 hired a good Western doctor and two assistants for the delivery at
 home.16
 In another letter, he explained that this daughter’s name, “Yuzai,” was close
 to the pronunciation of the English name “Joyce,” which meant “happiness.”17
 Yu, meaning jade in Chinese, was used as the middle character in the names
 of Sam’s daughters. The Zai character, meaning “planting,” was obviously
 linked to Sam’s farming career. Both the Chinese and English meanings re
veal Sam’s happy mood. After ten years’ of farming, he had begun to cherish
 asparagus as valuable as jade. The profit from the crop had given him a new
 house and allowed him to buy a new car and hire a good doctor for his wife’s
 delivery. Although Sam did not mention the fact, he was feeling more settled
 in American society. Although he never gave up his wish to go back to China,
 his farming career rooted him deeply in the local agricultural community.
Asparagus Farming as a Family Business
 A Diverse Labor Pool
 107
 Sam Chang was a shrewd agribusiness manager, especially in hiring
 laborers. An efficient work force could help reduce labor costs. In hiring la
borers, Sam dealt with people of varied ethnicities. Racial background influ
enced the wages of Sam’s non-Chinese workers. Writing in 1933, Sam
 commented:
 It is also important to get to know your workers. In the Los Angeles
 area, my labor supply comes from the Chinese, Mexicans, Filipinos,
 Americans, Germans, and Italians. Their monthly wages range from
 sixty or seventy to a hundred dollars. White workers are usually good,
 though they get paid higher than any other group. The Chinese are
 the second-highest-paid group, followed by the Filipinos. The Mexi
cans receive the lowest wages, as they are lazier than other groups.
 They only work in the first half of the month, and rest in the second
 half until they have spent all their money. Then they will work again.
 In the first few days, they work well, yet in ten days they become
 lazy. Good workers are usually stiff in manner and quick-tempered.
 Those who are lazy tend to have some humor and a good temper.
 Out of a hundred workers I have used, only a few are good workers
 with nice personalities. Five are Chinese, two Mexican, two white,
 and one Japanese.18
 In contrast to the stereotypical image of the Chinese as clannish, Sam’s let
ter presents a colorful world of laborers he interacted with as a Chinese farmer.
 Although he listed their nationalities and ethnic backgrounds, what mattered
 to him was their work attitude and personality, rather than their citizenship
 or English-language ability. When he described the Mexicans as lazy, it is
 unclear to what extent either prejudice against Mexicans or his personal ex
perience influenced his judgment, but his generalization is contradicted by
 his listing “two Mexicans” among the few “good workers.” Crossing ethnic
 boundaries, he included laborers from all racial backgrounds in this list.
 It is interesting that Sam listed Germans and Italians as separate from
 Americans. Although Sam did not specify whether these Germans and Ital
ians were immigrants or native-born, he did emphasize that the white labor
ers were paid best. Sam understood racial differences within the labor market.
 On his payroll, Caucasian workers usually received the highest wage, and Fili
pinos and Mexicans the lowest, as seen in another letter, written in 1933. He
 wrote: “I usually pay forty dollars to those who are in charge of plowing and
108
 The Transnational History
 irrigation, and thirty dollars to those who cut the asparagus. For the Filipi
nos and Mexicans, I pay twenty-eight dollars.”19 As a farmer, Sam had to
 pay prevailing wages as determined by labor market conditions. In 1933,
 wages for farm workers were particularly low because of the Great
 Depression.
 When the harvest season arrived, Sam would hire thirty to forty Mexi
can laborers. Mexican workers stayed on the farm until the harvest was over.
 One worker was supposed to cut eighteen cases of asparagus per day. Sam
 preferred to hire Mexicans because he found them more stable than Cauca
sian laborers: while Mexicans followed the harvest, Caucasian workers went
 to whoever paid the better wages. Also, as local laborers, Caucasian workers
 could leave whenever they chose; as foreign laborers, Mexicans were sub
ject to many restrictions and tended to grab the first employment available.
 They also relied on the farm owners to provide lodging and even food. On
 his farm, Sam had a place for workers to sleep, and sometimes provided veg
etables, but he did not provide cooks or meals.
 Hiring Relatives as Laborers
 In his farming business, most of Sam’s full-time Chinese workers were
 relatives, or people recommended by his relatives and friends. Hiring rela
tives had advantages and disadvantages. Relative workers usually were more
 stable than other workers, as their arrival in the United States was a result of
 Yitang’s sponsorship. Sam and his father brought more than forty relatives
 to America, most entering as merchant immigrants (or family members of
 merchants) since laborers were not allowed to enter.20 After arriving, these
 relatives worked either in Yitang’s herbal business or on the farms. Some also
 shared stocks in the farms. As laborers, they usually stayed on the farm until
 they had saved enough money to send for their wives and children and begin
 their own business. Kin relationship gave these laborers a sense of security
 and responsibility.
 The Chang family, as farm owners, and their relative laborers did not
 share the same goals or interest in the farming business, however. Sam com
ments on such conflict of interest in a 1923 letter to his son:
 Asparagus is growing better this year than last year, and the price at
 the market is stable. But we need capital to expand the business. Sev
eral of our relatives in the Chang families have shares in this farm.
 Whenever the farm makes some profits, your uncle Tianpei is eager
Asparagus Farming as a Family Business
 109
 to cash out his profits and return to China. One day, he got mad over
 a minor incident. He swore in front of me and told me that the farm
 did not only belong to me alone, and I should quit as the manager.
 People like Tianpei do not care that the farm needed capital to ex
pand. They are only concerned with living comfortably on the farm,
 getting paid well, and then returning to China.21
 Unlike other laborers, Tianpei, or his father, probably also invested some
 money as a minor partner. If he felt his share of profit too small or his wage
 too low, he could, as a relative, express his unhappiness. Although Sam’s chief
 concerns were labor costs, the market situation, profit, capital accumulation,
 and expansion of the business, the relatives working for him were interested
 in more immediate benefits, such as food, living conditions, workload, and
 wages. As they were not major shareholders of the farm, they held economi
cal perspectives differing from Yitang’s and Sam’s on the farm’s future.
 Although some were closely related, his relatives were not necessarily
 as reliable as Sam expected. When Ruyuan, the son of his twelfth uncle, im
migrated to California in 1926, Sam hired him as a field supervisor. How
ever, Sam soon had regrets. He wrote: “Ruyuan has arrived in Los Angeles
 and is now working as a labor boss on the farm, with a salary of seventy
 dollars a month. But he is lazy. Only a week after he started the job, he com
plained about the hardship of the labor and wanted to find some other job.”22
 Still, though the cousin seemed less qualified than his other workers, Sam
 paid him ten dollars more per month. During that period, the normal wage
 of a Chinese laborer was fifty to sixty dollars per month; Sam himself made
 ninety per month as the farm’s manager.23 Because of the kinship obliga
tion, Sam put a less qualified relative in a key position on his farm, some
times, against his own will.
 Hiring Ruyuan was actually not the result of a labor need, but to please
 Sam’s twelfth uncle, who lived in China. On payday, Sam remitted a large
 portion of Ruyuan’s wage to this twelfth uncle—directly and in spite of
 Ruyuan’s opposition. In a 1933 letter, Sam wrote: “I only give him fifteen
 dollars every month. The rest of the money is either remitted back to his fam
ily or goes back to the loan for his ship ticket, because he spends money reck
lessly.”24 In another letter, Sam told his twelfth uncle how he handled
 Ruyuan’s wage:
 After I figure out how much he should be paid, I deposit the money
 into the bank. When he demanded it, I asked him what it was for.
 He said it was not my business; it was his money and he wanted it. I
110
 The Transnational History
 told him that it was his father’s idea that we should not give him
 money unless it was absolutely necessary. We were not to give him
 more than fifteen or twenty dollars a month without his father’s per
mission.25
 Ruyuan rebelled against such payments and wanted his total pay. As he could
 not tolerate a farmer’s hard life, he often left the farm to visit gambling houses
 or nightclubs. One day, he went to hide himself in a nightclub owned by a
 white woman, and refused to go back to the farm. Sam’s wife asked their
 neighbor Hu Zhu for help, as Hu spoke fluent English. Hu went to the night
club a couple of times, but the white woman would not let Hu take Ruyuan
 away.26
 Eventually Ruyuan quit the job and left for New York. Ruyuan’s deci
sion made Sam and Yitang very unhappy, as it meant the waste of one Chang
 family immigration slot after all the risks and efforts made in the sponsor
ship process. But family solidarity did not always work to bind every Chi
nese immigrant to family interest. Individualism in American society could
 influence an immigrant’s decision regarding his or her relations with family
 and relatives. Ruyuan’s leaving is obviously a divergence from the collectiv
ism of Chinese family culture.
 Labor Relations
 Although hiring Chinese often embodied ethnic solidarity, Sam was cau
tious in handling relationships with his Chinese laborers. Chinese cultural
 tradition did not encourage him to engage in open confrontation with them,
 but the major reason for avoiding confrontation was a shortage of labor. Un
der the Chinese Exclusion laws, Chinese labor was difficult to obtain; con
flicts between labor and management could cause serious losses for the
 farmers, as Sam wrote in one letter:
 Since it is extremely difficult to get workers here, we have to toler
ate complaints. Every week, we get a lot of scolding from the work
ers. If we talk back, they will quit the job, and the farming will be
 neglected. Several Chinese farmers were already in trouble this year.
 A minor quarrel could lead to three or four strikes. And the owners
 of the farm bear the hardships themselves. Of course, tolerance is
 not always a good alternative. But we will see if the workers are
 skilled laborers. If they are skilled and lose their temper because of
 exhaustion from work, we should be sincere in listening to their com
Asparagus Farming as a Family Business
 111
 plaints, and give them an ambiguous response. They will gradually
 calm down. Confucius says that if you cannot bear small complaints,
 you will suffer great failure. As for those who always scold others
 but never work hard, you just get rid of them as soon as possible.
 While we are sympathetic and polite, we should be firm in our de
cision. When the knowledgeable quarrels with the ignorant, he low
ers his integrity.27
 As the letter indicates, the racial environment in American society, the labor
 market, kinship relationships, and family interests were all considered in Sam’s
 handling of labor relations. Although Sam never forgot that he belonged to
 the “knowledgeable” class, he had to cross class lines to approach his labor
ers. Maintaining a modest style in management, showing due respect to his
 workers, and tolerating certain behaviors were all necessary strategies. Navi
gating the nuances of ethnic solidarity seemed a more complicated job for
 Sam than learning how to plant asparagus.
 To avoid potential feuds, Sam carefully observed the personalities of
 his workers, assigned jobs according to each person’s ability and character,
 and exercised restraint when conflicts arose. He wrote:
 We have six workers on our farm. One of them is named Cen, from
 En-ping. He has a nickname—“No.1 Cen”—because he wants to be
 number one in everything. He will not allow disagreement with any
thing he says. He is illiterate and stubborn. He does not like other
 people to comment on his work. He tries to work fast but often does
 a poor job, though he may work harder than others. There is also a
 Li, a housekeeper of the laborers, who is slow and has poor hear
ing. Li likes to take small advantages but he has a good temper. He
 does not get angry when people blame or tease him. He is happy as
 long as he has got some money for opium-smoking. Lu, another
 worker, is about sixty. He works a little bit slowly but he is very care
ful, meticulous, and thoughtful. I often ask him to finish the neglected
 part of Cen’s work. When I am busy, I also use him as my assistant.
 He can read and write a little bit. As he is also addicted to opium
 smoking, he can hardly save enough money to go back to China,
 though he is already fifty-eight. This is why he needs a job here. He
 has poor health, does not talk much, and seldom jokes with other
 people. But he is a fine worker. Another worker, Yu, is nineteen and
 has been in America for only one year. He has been gambling in the
 last several months. His brother-in-law once bought him a new suit
112
 The Transnational History
 that is worth thirty dollars. Wearing it for a few days, he went to
 gamble. When he lost, he sold the suit for five dollars and lost again.
 He did not know what to do. At that time, our farm was hiring la
borers. We hired him to do both cooking and farming. On the fourth
 day, his skin got a little tanned because of sunshine. He wanted to
 quit the job, but I asked him to stay for three more days. He quar
reled with the other workers several times and finally left the farm.
 Of the workers, Cen is most diligent, Lu is meticulous, and Li is very
 patient. These are the three we need most on the farm, and each has
 played his own role in the work. We cannot trade their positions.28
 This keen and interesting observation demonstrates Sam’s patience, flexibil
ity, and above all, familiarity with his workers. Sam’s writing presented his
 laborers not as a faceless horde of laborers, but as real human beings. Their
 humorous nature, eccentric behavior, or personal character made them dis
tinct and lively individuals. Each had his own pride, hobby, and personality,
 and was willing to defend his rights whenever necessary. Each also had his
 aspirations and problems. Some had unrealistic dreams of striking it rich
 quickly and returning home as successful Gold Mountain guests, though they
 never made it. Others had already lost hope as they grew old, and therefore
 indulged in opium smoking as their last human pleasure. Although Sam some
times disagreed with them, and often had conflicts of interest with them, he
 treated them with respect and got along with them. This lively and realistic
 description is one of the rare, vivid, and valuable pieces of written documen
tation of Chinese immigrant laborers left by the Chinese themselves.
 Surviving the Great Depression and World War II
 The labor market situation changed drastically in the early 1930s. The
 Great Depression hit the Chinese community hard. Businesses in Chinatown
 were closed down and many Chinese laborers became unemployed. In a let
ter, Sam wrote:
 The economic depression spreads throughout the world. My aspara
gus farm is not doing well. The business and life of the entire Chi
nese community here is experiencing hard times. Unemployed
 Chinese are everywhere. People cannot get jobs even if they offer
 to work for food. We are very upset to see Chinatown in Los Ange
les filling with several hundred Chinese who entered secretly from
 Mexico. A relative introduced three men named Liang to work on
Asparagus Farming as a Family Business
 113
 my farm, but I have already quite a number of people living on the
 farm and could not afford to let more people stay on my farm. I have
 been in the United States for more than twenty years but don’t have
 much savings in the bank. During the Depression, only the Soviet
 Union does not have an unemployment problem. I am not a Com
munist but I think that the world is probably moving towards that
 direction.29
 Sam’s letter reveals the frustration and pain of the Chinese community. Los
 Angeles Chinatown received hundreds of unemployed Chinese from Mexico
 at the same time the local Chinese were hit hard by the Depression. Being
 an immigrant himself, Sam did not blame those Chinese who entered ille
gally into America but worried about their slim employment opportunities
 during this period. Sam’s appreciative attitude towards the Soviet Union in
dicates his pessimism about the capitalist social system, but he only expressed
 such an attitude in private correspondence. Although Sam was sympathetic
 with the immigrants from Mexico, his farm could not take too many Chi
nese laborers, even if they were recommended by a relative and willing to
 work for food. The letter illustrates how, in times of difficulty, Chinatown
 functioned as a global network and how overseas Chinese relied on kinship
 or other social relations to find employment. The letter also illustrates how
 the Great Depression impacted Sam’s own farming life. Commenting on the
 market situation for asparagus, Sam wrote: ”The asparagus price is lower than
 any year before this. In July, it was seven cents a pound. Now it is six. The
 crop of the old farm sold for less than six hundred dollars yet the labor and
 other costs are over twenty-five hundred dollars. We must sell that farm.”30
 As the letter indicates, the difficult situation almost forced the Chang family
 to sell the old farm. In 1933, a local white merchant made an offer to buy it
 at six hundred dollars per acre. But, though the old farm continued to lose
 money, the Chang family determined to hold onto it until they could sell it
 for a better price; they did so, for twenty thousand dollars, in 1937. How
ever, more than half of this money went to the bank to repay loans.
 In 1939, shortly after they sold the old farm, Sam had another difficult
 year. He wrote to his son:
 All Chinese asparagus farmers have suffered losses this year since
 each case of asparagus sells five cents less than last year. I want to
 switch to herbal medicine, as asparagus farming cannot make a profit
 and family expenses are heavy. Your third uncle invited me to open a
 medical office with him in Long Beach. I have not promised him yet.31
114
 The Transnational History
 Sam managed to stay in asparagus farming, as the situation improved in 1940.
 In 1941, he also took over the ownership of the Chang family house on the
 second farm, and five acres of land in front of the house. He registered the
 property under his third and fourth daughter’s names, as they were American
born Chinese. The rest of the land, he still owned with his father and another
 person, in a business partnership.
 During World War II, labor shortages became a problem again, as Chi
nese could find employment in the military services and the defense indus
try. In a 1941 letter, Sam mentioned that four of his relatives went to serve
 in the U.S. armed forces. When they visited their families, coming in from
 military camps in other parts of the country, they looked healthy and high
spirited to Sam.32 In May 1943, Sam claimed: “I have never been so busy in
 my life. Since April, I have had less than five hours of sleep every day. The
 harvest started one month earlier than usual and wages have risen so high
 that we can hardly afford them. Half of our crops remained uncut in the
 field.”33
 To solve labor shortages, the American government invited workers
 from Mexico. In 1944, Sam wrote to tell his son”
 The asparagus business is better than before. But agricultural prod
ucts are subjected to many restrictions and cannot sell at a high price.
 Meanwhile, the American government helped us get about twenty
 Mexican workers and solved the labor shortage problem. The rumor
 is that the government may consider using German P.O.W. laborers
 rather than recruit workers from Mexico.34
 However, German prisoners-of-war never arrived. When the war came to an end,
 many Chinese returned to China. Sam’s last two Chinese workers left, too.
 In 1947, Sam Chang entered into a sharecropping agreement with a
 Japanese farmer. Sam described him as a man with a family and farming
 experience.
 I have hired a Japanese man to run the farm. I provide the capital
 while he offers his labor. We will divide the profit of the harvest
 evenly. His family, which includes his parents, his wife, daughter and
 himself, lives on the farm. I will not charge him for rent, electricity,
 gas, or furniture. I think he is an experienced farmer and
 hardworking. If he can work until next summer, and everything is
 fine by then, I will renew another year’s contract with him. . . . Both
 your mother and I are getting old. Next summer, your mother will
Asparagus Farming as a Family Business
 115
 visit the East Coast with Yuzai. In another two years, we will return
 to China.35
 This was probably a Japanese American family newly released from an in
ternment camp. Although Sam was bitter about the Japanese invasion of
 China, he did not try to take advantage of the anti-Japanese sentiment of the
 times. As a veteran farmer in Southern California, Sam was certainly aware
 of the long farming history of Japanese immigrants before they were sent to
 the internment camps. With respect to the sharecropping Japanese man’s farm
ing skill, Sam not only hired him but let his whole family stay on the farm.
 Also interesting in this letter is that Sam expressed his wish to retire in China
 after almost thirty years’ stay in America.
 Sam’s Perceptions of Chinese Life in America
 While learning about farming operations, Sam observed other aspects
 of Chinese farming life in California, including gambling addiction and what
 he saw as poor morality at work. In his farming notes, he wrote the follow
ing comments on the pervasiveness of gambling among farm laborers:
 But, among the Chinese farm laborers, gambling is so common. In
 the Stockton area, there are always little boats on the rivers close to
 farms. These are gambling boats. Some laborers would spend all their
 savings on gambling and prostitution on these boats. In Los Ange
les there are no such boats, but laborers would go to the gambling
 house located downtown even though my farm is pretty far away from
 the downtown. I hope our government will work with the American
 government to eliminate these bad habits among the Chinese farm
ers. And then we will be able to make the same kind of progress as
 the Japanese farmers here.36
 Sam viewed the gambling addiction as a symptom of low morality. He was
 not able to see it as a problem deeply embedded in the racial environment
 surrounding the Chinese. Due to the limited job options, low wages, long
 working hours, and lack of family life, gambling became, for a long time,
 one of the few entertainments Chinese laborers could enjoy. Sam’s laborers,
 for example, would go all the way from his North Hollywood farm to down
town Los Angeles to gamble.
 In his letters, Sam also discussed the lack of family life among the Chi
nese. Writing to a friend, he commented:
116
 The Transnational History
 Do not ever think that all overseas Chinese could marry more wives
 and concubines because they have money. The situation is just the
 opposite. I have found that there are about sixty-five thousand Chi
nese in America [the 1919 estimate], with about sixty-one thousand
 men and only four thousand women, including old people or young
 kids. There are not many marriageable women. And few of them
 know traditional Chinese values. . . . It could cost seven thousand to
 eight thousand Chinese dollars to marry a wife abroad. I hear [that]
 in London and Paris some Chinese married Western wives because
 Chinese women are few. But many have to leave for elsewhere to
 make more money due to the cost. Many marriages have ended in
 separation.37
 Sam had probably done some research on this issue, as he provided a fairly
 accurate figure about the skewed sex ratio among the Chinese during that
 period. His letter tells us that Chinese immigrants were keenly aware of the
 negative impact of the exclusion laws on their family life. Under exclusion
 policies, the unbalanced ratio between Chinese men and women made mar
riage costs too high for average working-class Chinese immigrants. Viewing
 all overseas Chinese as a globally connected community, Sam’s observation
 included the Chinese community in Europe.
 Another social problem Sam was concerned about was the increasing
 concentration of Chinese immigrants in the service sector. He wrote: “I have
 noticed that most of the Chinese farmers are over fifty years old, or even sev
enty. Younger Chinese are engaged in gambling, restaurants, or laundries. They
 could not tolerate the hard life of a farmer who works on the scorching field
 from dawn to sunset.” In comparing the Chinese immigrants with the Japa
nese, Sam continued:
 The Japanese immigrants are mainly engaged in farming or the gro
cery business. They work very hard and have made good profits.
 Every year they will remit hundreds of thousand of dollars to Ja
pan. That is why Americans started the anti-Japanese movement, to
 protect the interest of their own farmers. The Japanese cannot buy
 or lease land in California. They have to turn in one-third of their
 profits to the white landowners.38
 In another letter, Sam wrote: “The old generation Chinese immigrants who
 came to the United States several decades ago are also hardworking people
 who have tasted all kinds of hardships here in building railways, working in
Asparagus Farming as a Family Business
 117
 the mines and forests, and reclaiming land.”39 While criticizing the newly
 arrived Chinese immigrants for pursuing gambling and service businesses,
 Sam saw social values associated with the occupations the Chinese had be
come involved in, in America, before the majority were driven into menial
 service jobs. He considered gold mining, railroad construction, or farming
 to be meaningful jobs that represented the significant contributions of the
 Chinese to American society. Laundry, restaurant, and gambling businesses,
 he considered a disgrace.
 Although his writing was not a direct criticism of racism, Sam saw the
 Japanese following in the footsteps of the Chinese in their American experi
ence. Like the Chinese, they worked extremely hard, engaged in farming and
 grocery businesses, and remitted money to support families back home. A
 hardworking spirit similar to that of the Chinese only earned the Japanese
 similar prejudice and hatred from American society. Sam’s farming notes here
 reflect how the Alien Land Act of California, passed in 1913, prevented Japa
nese from leasing or purchasing land. His writing shows his sympathy for
 Japanese immigrants who had “to turn in one-third of their profits to the white
 landowners” as a result of the racist Alien Land Act.
 Sam noticed that workers’ morale was becoming lower and lower among
 the Chinese immigrants:
 While the Japanese have made much progress, the Chinese have
 achieved downward rather than upward mobility. They have received
 no education and have little knowledge. There are about seventy thou
sand to eighty thousand Chinese in America. If they work hard, each
 could make an income of one thousand dollars a year and could col
lectively remit hundreds of thousands dollars home. But my obser
vation is that only two-thirds of the Chinese have money to send
 home to remedy the poverty there. The loss seems to outweigh the
 gain. Most of the Chinese farmers here are over fifty years old. They
 are different from those “parasites” who came to San Francisco as
 “lazy bones” with two or three hundred dollars [to start small busi
nesses].40
 Sam’s perception of the Chinese experience in America as a downward so
cial mobility reflects a deeply pessimistic view shared by many of his con
temporary Chinese. Even though Sam’s estimate about the average income a
 Chinese could make may not be accurate, his comment on the low morale of
 the Chinese was a realistic description. He again expressed his contempt to
ward those Chinese who worked in service businesses, such as laundries or
118
 The Transnational History
 restaurants. His class background may not have enabled him to attribute ra
cial discrimination as the major factor that drove many Chinese into service
 sectors of labor, but his writing demonstrates a sense of humiliation as he
 watched laundry or gambling becoming a trademark Chinese American oc
cupation.
 Sam’s Farming Notes
 In the 1920s, Sam, while acquiring farming skills, kept a detailed record
 of his farming experience in a student notebook. His notes read like an un
published paper on farming in America as compared with farming in China,
 and on the life of Chinese immigrant farmers in the Los Angeles area. (Be
ing an educated immigrant, Sam also wrote many poems and reflections about
 life in America. When he passed away in 1988, he left a huge collection of
 his writings, including many family letters.41 Like the diary of the legend
ary Ah Quin in San Diego, Sam’s collection is one of the few written docu
ments left by pioneer Chinese immigrants.42 ) Rather than offering us figures
 on the acreage, stock shares, or net profit of Chinese farmers, Sam’s writing
 reflects aspirations, frustrations and motivations of early Chinese immigrant
 farmers. When placed into a larger historical context, his career and writing
 enable us to see important roles played by Chinese in asparagus farming in
 Southern California. While covering many aspects of the Chinese American
 experience, a significant portion of Sam’s writing is about his farming as a
 family business, and his writing helps us understand how Chinese entered
 asparagus farming and operated it as family business, what their concerns
 and worries were, how they felt about farm life in America for immigrants,
 and how a Chinese farmer viewed his Chinese and non-Chinese laborers and
 handled labor relations. Sam’s life and writing thus offer illuminating insight
 into the subjective meaning of Chinese life in America.
 Originally Sam began to write his farming notes as a way to accumu
late experience. Later, he intended to write a book on Chinese farming in
 Southern California. On the front page of his farming notebook, he listed
 six topics that he intended to write about: the importance of agriculture ver
sus the importance of commerce, the incompetence of agriculture schools in
 China, the “backward” farming techniques in China, the lack of agricultural
 shows in China, government subsidy of farming, and lack of professional ag
ricultural markets in China. Although he did not finish the book, Sam be
lieved these were the crucial issues in China’s agricultural development.
 Sam’s intention to write on these topics reflects his deep feelings for
Asparagus Farming as a Family Business
 119
 China. As a former government official, he often received Chinese officials
 in his home and made friends with them. Most of these officials were con
cerned about the life of the overseas Chinese. In fact, his acquaintance with
 Fan Yuanlian, a famous educator and reformist in China, was what motivated
 him to write his book about Chinese immigrant farmers in America.43 In July
 1922, after he resigned from his third term as China’s minister of education,
 Fan came to inspect rural education in the United States. When he visited
 Southern California, he stayed at Sam’s home.
 While Fan stayed with Sam, he made a careful inspection of the farm,
 and discussed many social and agricultural issues with Sam. Showing great
 interest in Sam’s farming activities, Fan also requested a written description
 of Chinese farmers in Southern California. As Sam appreciated Fan’s con
cern about overseas Chinese farmers, he was happy to turn in a book-length
 research report to him. Sam aborted the project in 1927 when, at the age of
 fifty-two, Fan died in Beijing. But Sam’s farming notes have demonstrated
 his concerns about modernization and social reform in China. In comment
ing on the Chinese agricultural schools, he wrote:
 Although our country has established agricultural schools for a dozen
 years, these schools are not well managed. The teaching methodol
ogy is poor, and information about new developments in agriculture
 is not up to date. The language of the textbooks is difficult to un
derstand and the new terms from Western countries have been trans
lated mechanically without explanation. The teachers are probably
 good professors but not capable farmers. In America, things are dif
ferent. I have had visitors from Los Angeles farming schools. The
 teachers take the students to the farm, let them inspect how to farm
 in the field, and allow them to learn the skill by doing. Our Chinese
 teachers will never conduct a class like that. Meanwhile the bandits
 and social disorder in the countryside are so rampant that it is diffi
cult to arrange fieldwork for students.44
 Sam was an educated man. Although he came from a rural landlord family,
 he received a modern education at a Guangdong police academy. Widely read
 in Chinese classics like Confucian or Tang poetry, and writing classic poems
 himself, he also had strong interests in the writings and ideas of turn-of-the
century reformists like Kang Youwei and Liang Qichao, and of later notables
 like Sun Yatsen, Hu Shi, Chen Duxiu, and Cai Yuanpei, and in translations
 of Western political and literary writings.45 It was against this cultural back
ground that he made critical comparisons between China and the United States
120
 The Transnational History
 in agricultural education, and intended to write his book on farming. Although
 busy with farming, Sam was not a socially isolated farmer: he received teach
ers and students from local farming schools and obviously conversed with
 them. The hands-on learning method in American farming schools impressed
 him and enabled him to understand that mechanical translation of Western
 textbooks was not enough to reform the Chinese education system. As an
 immigrant, he was still concerned about China.
 Chinese Dominance in Asparagus Farming
 According to Sam Chang, many Chinese entered asparagus farming in
 the Sepulveda area during the 1920s, and gradually their farms stretched from
 Chatsworth to North Hollywood.46 Although he did not provide a reliable
 figure of total acreage in the Los Angeles area, Sam estimated that the Chi
nese grew about eighty percent of the local asparagus. In the farming notes,
 he also wrote:
 The Chinese have a good method for growing potatoes, and there
 are about six hundred Chinese farmers and their workers who used
 to grow potatoes before. In the last ten years, many of them have
 turned to asparagus. Our own farm grew potatoes for three years be
fore we started growing asparagus.47
 In his 1975 interview, Sam could still recall the names of his fellow Chinese
 asparagus farmers. He listed seven Zhang families, four Hu families, two Zhao
 families, four Guan families, and one Situ family, whose farming career was
 the longest among the Chinese. Sam estimated that many Chinese farms made
 net profits of two thousand to three thousand dollars per year. Some of the
 larger farms could make ten thousand dollars.48
 Based on Sam’s records, the golden era of Chinese asparagus farming
 in Southern California was from 1915 to 1930. He continued:
 Asparagus production in the Los Angeles area is not enough to meet
 the local demand, and therefore the local daily fresh products from
 Chinese-owned farms usually supply the local market. The Chinese
 farmers determine the price of fresh asparagus in consideration of
 the price of asparagus samples imported from other places. The lo
cal asparagus price will be two to three cents per pound higher than
 the asparagus price supplied from other places. The price is not nec
essarily determined before the sale is made, since the payment is on
Asparagus Farming as a Family Business
 121
 a weekly rather than on a daily basis. Growing asparagus is a very
 hard work and it is difficult to find laborers. There are few Western
 asparagus farmers. So the Chinese grow eighty per cent of the as
paragus in Los Angeles. As Chinese farmers are hardworking, they
 can handle it. Four acres of my farm began to produce asparagus
 and we would sell the product at fourteen cents per pound in the four
 years from 1919 to 1922. Based on this price range, we can make a
 little profit if we can keep the cost under ten cents per pound.
 According to Sam’s note, that most asparagus farmers in the Los Angeles
 area were Chinese was because asparagus farming was an arduous job. The
 Chinese dominated the local market as they were able to provide fresh prod
ucts. As an experienced farmer, Sam also noted that Los Angeles was an im
portant agricultural distribution center. Many products including asparagus
 were delivered there before they were distributed to other parts of the coun
try. But Sam’s notes did not record any prominent Chinese produce merchant
 competing with the white produce merchants for the national and interna
tional market. In the notes, Sam usually referred to Chinese as “farmers” and
 referred to white Americans as “merchants.” This indicates that most Chi
nese farmers handled both farming and sales, while their white American
 counterparts were merely wholesale produce merchants. While Chinese sup
plied their products to the local market, white merchants controlled the more
 profitable national and international markets.
 However, Sam knew well that asparagus farming in the Los Angeles
 area had a great potential for Chinese immigrants as real estate values in the
 area were rapidly rising due to the farming’s importance in commerce and
 trade. He continued:
 I really hope more Chinese will come to buy land and grow aspara
gus so that such profits will not go to the pockets of other people.
 Los Angeles is now among the five top metropolitan areas in America
 and will become the most famous city in the world. Land prices will
 rise drastically. Our farm was worth three hundred dollars per acre
 six years ago. Now the price is six hundred dollars per acre. In the
 south of the city, the Weilong Farm was bought at six hundred per
 acre. Now it is worth two thousand dollars per acre. And the Hu fam
ily farm, the Situ, Zhao, and Guan family farms, are all worth three
 times as much as when the families bought the land a few years ago.49
 Although Sam saw farming as a good opportunity for the Chinese, he was
 different from Japanese farming community leaders like Abiko Kyutaro who
122
 The Transnational History
 viewed farming as a path for Japanese immigrants to move from being “set
tlers” to being “sojourners,” and to transform themselves from Japanese into
 Americans.50 Chinese immigrants mainly referred to themselves as jinshanke
 or “Gold Mountain guests,” which did not specify whether they would re
turn to home or stay in America; if some stayed, they would not forget their
 roots in China and would often view America as home away from home. Sam
 still wanted to return to China after several decades in America. For many
 Chinese, the purpose of migration was to explore opportunities overseas,
 rather than to look for another place to reside. When his farming notes de
scribed Los Angeles as an important metropolitan area and a famous city in
 the world, Sam viewed America as a meeting ground where the Chinese would
 intermingle with all kinds of people as they came to participate in the local
 economy. With hopes to see more Chinese in Los Angeles, Sam essentially
 perceived migration as an economic endeavor for social mobility. Although
 living over sixty years in America, he never intentionally tried to embrace
 American nationalistic ideology to guide his life and identity. Like those of
 his fellow Chinese asparagus farmers, his service to the Los Angeles area as
 a hardworking immigrant farmer, and his lifelong farming career made him
 a valued member of the local agricultural community.
 The City Market of the Asians
 Although Sam’s farming notes were intended for a book project to be
 published in China, a considerable portion of the notes actually focus on the
 farming and agribusiness activities of Chinese immigrants in Southern Cali
fornia.51 On professional agricultural markets, Sam wrote:
 There is no professional agricultural market in China. In a devel
oped country, there is always a stable market between the rural area
 and the city, which can determine the price of agricultural products.
 City people cannot fool farmers. Being a farmer in Los Angeles, I
 am familiar with the situation here. Los Angeles agricultural mar
kets are big and famous in the American West. There are three big
 markets: one on Sixth Street, one on Eighth Street, and one on Ninth
 Street. The one on Eighth Street is the largest, where much of the
 import and export trade is done. The one on Sixth Street is smaller.
 And the one on Ninth Street is the smallest, operated by the Chi
nese and Japanese. As the white merchants often discriminated
 against the yellow race in the last ten years, the yellow race could
 not tolerate it anymore, so they opened their own market. The Ninth
Asparagus Farming as a Family Business
 123
 Street market opens at 2 a.m., three to four hours earlier than the
 markets on Eighth and Sixth Streets, so that the peddlers or truckers
 are able to deliver produce to restaurants for use before the break
fast hour. The markets on Eighth and Sixth Streets have more whole
sale businesses and need to deliver their goods to the railroad station.
 They open at 5 or 6 a.m. Chinese asparagus farmers mainly sell their
 products to the Ninth Street market.52
 The market on Ninth Street is also referred to as the City Market, dominated
 byAsians.53 According to Sam’s farming notes, this market became the small
est of the three because Caucasian partners took out their shares from the
 City Market and set up the third market on Eighth Street when they failed to
 squeeze out the Asian partners. Sam wrote:
 At one time, the white merchants tried to oust Chinese from the
 produce area on San Pedro Avenue. They decided to sell shares for the
 buildings and land, and declared that the Chinese must contribute
 a hundred thousand dollars or be forced to leave. Chinese merchants
 raised some money but still lacked about thirty thousand dollars. The
 Asparagus Association decided in a meeting to make up the
 difference.54
 Although Sam’s intention was to discuss how a professional agricultural mar
ket was operated in America, he could not help making comments on the ra
cial relations between Asians and whites. As a racial minority, Asian farmers
 and produce peddlers began their work two to three hours earlier than their
 white counterparts, partly because they wanted to be more competitive in their
 supply service and partly because many clients were local restaurants and
 needed their supply before breakfast. With more stable and larger clients from
 the national and international markets, white produce merchants did not have
 to work as hard as did Asians.
 The usage of “yellow race” in Sam’s writing is significant. In Chinese
 vocabulary, there is no difference between “race” and “ethnicity.” When Chi
nese disliked national or racial groups, they used negative terms based on
 physical features, such as “white devil” for Caucasians or “dwarf devil” for
 Japanese. Sam used this term several times, in other letters, when he men
tioned Japan’s historical infringements on China’s territorial sovereignty and
 the more recent Japanese military invasion. However, there had been no wide
spread racial discourse in Chinese society until the beginning of the twenti
eth century, when many Chinese intellectuals realized that China was
124
 The Transnational History
 subjected to Western domination not only as a nation but also as a race. The
 turn from the nineteenth to the twentieth century was a period not only of
 Western military and economic invasion but also of enormous influx of for
eign culture, and, in translating and introducing foreign cultures, Chinese in
tellectuals paid special attention to the weak and oppressed nations and racial/
 ethnic groups. For example, Harriet Beecher Stowe’s Uncle Tom’s Cabin was
 one of the earliest and most popular novels translated into Chinese. In a pref
ace and an afterword, translator Lin Shu discussed the parallels between
 Stowe’s story of black slaves and the racism directed against the Chinese in
 America and domination of China by Western nations.55 A few years after
 Uncle Tom’s Cabin was translated into Chinese, “[T]he new nationalism pro
duced in 1905 China’s first modern boycott against the United States’ dis
criminatory treatment of Chinese, particularly the total exclusion of
 laborers.”56 After this, “yellow race” had become an important term in Chi
nese nationalist discourse.
 As mentioned earlier, Sam had read many Western literary works trans
lated into Chinese. However, in his writing, Sam did not view Japanese im
migrants as a separate race. When Sam used the term in his discussion on
 the farm market in Los Angeles, he actually referred to both Chinese and
 Japanese farmers in their alliance against white merchants. Such an alliance
 enabled the Chinese to stay in farming for a long time. Regarding the con
tinuous Chinese influence in local agriculture, historian William Mason notes:
 “Refrigerated railroad cars brought tons of vegetables fresh from the Impe
rial Valley in mid-winter, threatening the Chinese vegetable-grower. He met
 the challenge well, however, for the vegetable-peddler turned produce bro
ker. In 1900, only three out of forty-three produce companies were Chinese,
 but by 1910, there were seventeen Chinese produce companies out of one
 hundred fifty-five, and the Chinese have continued to be influential in Los
 Angeles’ wholesale produce industry to this day.”57 Sam’s writing reflects
 how white wholesale produce merchants, with more capital, tried to squeeze
 out their Asian counterparts, and how Chinese collaborated with Japanese
 farmers to keep control of their own market, well into the 1920s. The City
 Market, with its Asian farmers, has been the topic of a number of scholarly
 publications;58 however, Sam’s writing is a valuable piece of documentation
 left by one of the Chinese farmers themselves about their operation of the
 Market and their relations with white American farmers.
 Although Sam wanted to retire in China, his busy farming life did not
 give him an opportunity even to visit his home country, once he left in 1915.
 When he finally retired from farming, in 1965, the United States and China
Asparagus Farming as a Family Business
 125
 were bitter enemies, and by 1979, when the two countries resumed relations,
 he was too old to return. Until his death in 1988, he spoke Cantonese at home,
 read Chinese language newspapers for information, and followed political
 events in China. When, in 1985, he was honored as a pioneer farmer in South
ern California, at his one-hundredth-birthday dinner, sponsored by the Cul
tural Foundation of Orange Country, he delivered his speech in Cantonese.59
 Sam, though he did not intend to stay when he first arrived, eventually
 settled in America because, among other reasons, he was commited to the
 collective interest of the Chang family. Such a tale is probably true of many
 Chinese immigrants of his time. Even though a China-oriented immigrant,
 Sam lived the majority of his life in America—a life deeply ingrained in the
 Los Angeles agricultural community. How, then, do we define him, in his
 role as a valuable and memorable member of the local American commu
nity—sojourner or settler? His life story poses a challenging question for
 Asian American historians.
