While Sam Chang was busy with as
paragus farming in Southern California, he kept a close eye on family af
fairs in China. He remitted money to his wife and children, as well as to his
 second brother and twelfth uncle on behalf of his father, contributed sugges
tions and opinions regarding the management of lineage property, sponsored
 relatives’ immigration to the United States, and above all, monitored his
 children’s education in China. Sam and his father, Yitang, worked hard, in
 their herb and asparagus businesses, to provide a financial base for the
 younger generation to receive good educations. Self-sacrifice of the parents,
 in return, obliged the younger generation to compete vigorously at school
 that they might pursue good careers and achieve social mobility. The young
 Changs’ accomplishments, in return, lived up to their parents’ expectations
 and brought honor to the family.
 Educational success, for a Chinese family, is not only an individual
 merit but represents a shared interest. Instead of family collectivism giving
 way to individualism, in the Chang’s case, there is compromise between per
sonal goals and the greater good of the family as a collective. When Yitang
 and Sam retired, they did not, as immigrants, accumulate much wealth for
 themselves, but they made sure that every child of theirs had accomplished
 a college education. The content of Chinese family culture is not just eco
nomic survival, filial piety, ancestry worship, or gender preference; children’s
 education, too, is an important agenda in Chinese family life.
 In Chinese society, education often means family separation. As men
tioned in chapter 2, Chinese children in the rural areas could attend village
 schools for basic literacy training but, would have to leave home for more
 advanced schooling in towns or cities. Boys over ten lodged in schools away
 from home for years, if they hoped to pass the civil service examinations and
 126
Education as a Family Agenda
 127
 if their parents could afford the tuition and food.1 Following this tradition,
 Sam sent his children to appropriate schools regardless of location. His son
 Tennyson attended schools first in Guangzhou and then in North China, while
 his daughter Constance left the family’s rural village to attend modern schools
 in the city, then immigrated to the United States. Education, for the younger
 generation in the Chang family, much like migration for the parent genera
tion, has often meant pursuit of opportunities away from home. In this fam
ily history, we have seen how education could function as a pipeline for
 Chinese youth to leave their home regions for a metropolitan area, embrace
 national and international culture, and develop new identities.
 While Sam’s children were attending schools away from home, letters
 were the family’s major communication channel. Family members wrote to
 one another and exchanged information on regular basis. As mentioned in
 this book’s introduction, in the Sam Chang’s collection of family documents,
 there are numerous lengthy letters between parents and children. These let
ters show how Sam and his wife constantly worried about their children in
 China and how these parents and children communicated their thoughts and
 emotions. In his letters, Sam frequently asked his children about their grades,
 discussed school curriculum and academic subjects, and meticulously advised
 the children on school and social life. When letters from the children revealed
 that they missed home and felt lonely, Sam and his wife responded promptly
 with encouragement and support and helped the children gradually become
 independent and mature. Family correspondence allowed Sam to closely moni
tor the children’s education at a distance. In the trans-Pacific experience of
 the Chang family, the bond between parents and children became strength
ened rather than weakened. Mutual expectations and commitment made this
 transnational family strong.
 Adapting to Changes in Education
 The early twentieth century witnessed many changes in China, includ
ing reforms in the educational system. After China abolished the traditional
 civil service examination system in 1905, it made a serious commitment to
 reform the national school system along the lines of Western models. A new
 system ranging from kindergarten to university gradually replaced the shuyuan
 or sishu (private school). New schools offered modern curricula and estab
lished new pedagogical principles. However, as a result of a shortage of quali
fied teachers, suitable course materials, and adequate equipment or funding,
 traditional schools coexisted with modern schools until 1930s. By 1935,
128
 The Transnational History
 traditional schools still constituted 40 percent of the elementary schools in
 the national system.2 Tuition was also much cheaper at traditional schools.
 In his research on Phoenix Village, Guangdong, D. H. Kulp has indicated
 that a student’s fee was about three-and-one-half Chinese dollars per semes
ter at the traditional school, in contrast to eight dollars at a modern school.3
 Such circumstances had to be considered by the parents and students
 in deciding on which school system to attend. To advise his children on at
tending new schools, Sam followed closely the social trends in Chinese so
ciety. Reform in education took a more radical turn after the May Fourth
 movement began. On 4 May 1919, a mass student demonstration broke out
 in Beijing, protesting the transfer of Shandong Province from German to Japa
nese control, a decision made at the Versailles Peace Conference of the same
 year. After that, a radical social reform movement, called the May Fourth or
 New Culture Movement, started to fervently attack Confucianism, traditional
 values like the patriarchal family and arranged marriage, and the old educa
tional system. The movement also promoted the use of vernacular style to
 replace classical style in Chinese writing.
 Even while busy with his farm work, Sam was keenly interested in these
 political and cultural developments unfolding in China. In his letters, he fre
quently asked for books and periodicals. In several letters in1921, he requested
 his son mail him such magazines as Nanfeng (South Wind) and Xin Qingnian
 (New Youth). Nanfeng was a liberal magazine in Guangdong Province that
 often carried translations of Western literature; Xin Qingnian was a radical
 intellectual journal edited by Chen Duxiu, a leading figure in the May Fourth
 movement and later the first General Secretary of the Chinese Communist
 Party. These readings kept Sam updated about new ideas and social reforms
 in China and also helped him understand the challenge his children might
 find in their pursuit of education. Sam constantly wrote back to his children
 to advise them which schools they should attend. Some of his letters were
 ten to fifteen pages long. Coming from a rural landlord family, Sam was fa
miliar with the old school system and was heavily influenced by traditional
 ideas, though he had received a modern education. As an informed parent,
 Sam had to carefully think how to advise his children to adapt to the radical
 changes in Chinese society and education.
 During the early 1920s, Sam’s son Tennyson (Tingxun) studied at the
 Tongzhi School in Guangzhou, a modern school (though classical texts were
 still used there). In one letter, Sam noted the influence of Zuozhuan, an an
cient history text written in good prose style, on Tennyson’s writing style.
 Even though encouraging his son to pursue a modern education, Sam was
Education as a Family Agenda
 129
 happy to see his son learning some basic classic Chinese literature, which
 would balance the modern curriculum with traditional Chinese culture. Sam
 wrote:
 Young people should study very hard because you can hardly accom
plish anything once you are over twenty to thirty years old. Your es
say on commerce written at your twelfth uncle’s home in Hong Kong
 is very good. I have sent it to Mr. Liang Ruhuai in San Francisco,
 who works at Chung Sat Yat Po [China-West Daily], and see if he
 could publish your essay in the newspaper. I could see that Zuozhuan
 influenced your writing style. With a good teacher, you will make
 great progress in one or two years if you study hard at this age. The
 British poet Browning could write good poetry because he was a
 good student when he was a child. Modern scholars emphasize the
 use of the vernacular instead of the classical writing style. However,
 you still need to practice classical writing for another two or three
 years before you turn to the use of the vernacular. As a student, you
 will not be able to write good vernacular essays unless you have a
 good classical writing foundation. Hu Shi is a pioneer vernacular
 scholar. But he received a good classical training and also studied
 in the United States. So did Cai Yuanpei, who was actually a jinshi
 [the highest academic degree in feudal China] in the Qing Dynasty.
 I know that 70 to 80 per cent of the students now study the vernacu
lar, as it will replace the classical language as the main language in
 the future. As a student of the new China, you should study the ver
nacular. To practice your vernacular skills, you can write a few es
says in your spare time and send them out to newspapers or journals
 for publication. However, most of our Chinese scholars are good at
 writing but not speaking. That is a great pity. Oration training is very
 important in modern education. A young scholar should bear three
 things in mind: determination, conscientiousness, and persistence.
 With determination, you always want to be the best. Being consci
entious, you will never stop your study. And finally, if you believe
 there is a will, then there will be a way. You should always keep these
 three things in mind.4
 This letter tells us how closely Sam followed the progress of his son’s
 education, and the societal events that could impact that education. Although
 education reformists advocated the use of vernacular style to replace classi
cal style, model school texts were still rare and many modern schools still
130
 The Transnational History
 used classical texts and teaching methods; moreover, many teachers were not
 adequately trained to teach the vernacular writing technique. This is prob
ably why Tennyson’s writing was still influenced by classical Chinese litera
ture. Sam was not too worried about this, as he wanted his son to receive
 training in classical Chinese writing.
 It is interesting that Sam submitted his son’s essay to Chung Sat Yat Po
 for publication. This leading Chinese American newspaper in California was
 popular among Chinese immigrants, and many of their families in Guangdong
 were familiar with its name. Getting published in the newspaper could cer
tainly enhance Tennyson’s confidence in his education. As an overseas par
ent, Sam was quite resourceful in his involvement in his children’s education.
 Although living in America, Sam fully understood that the new trends
 in Chinese education were going to prevail, pointing out in the letter that 70
 to 80 percent of Chinese students began to learn the vernacular at school.
 He wanted to make sure that his son would join the mainstream in educa
tion, become a “student of the new China,” and master the vernacular that
 was going to replace classical writing as the dominant discourse at most
 schools. On the other hand, he urged his son not to ignore the classical Chi
nese: during this transitional period in Chinese education, Sam was not sure
 if the modern curriculum was a mature system and would lay a solid foun
dation for his son’s Chinese language ability. In the letter, when Sam men
tioned a number of well-known leading intellectuals, like Hu Shi and Cai
 Yuanpei in the May Fourth movement, who advocated radical reforms and
 modernization, he pointed out that these people had a good command of clas
sical Chinese. Most intellectual leaders in the May Fourth movement totally
 denied Chinese traditional values, pushed for radical social reforms, and ad
vocated rapid Westernization of Chinese society, but, as a parent, Sam did
 not blindly follow these extreme ideas but carefully balanced his advice to
 his children.
 Having lived in America, and being exposed to Western culture, Sam
 felt that he should discuss with his children the differences between Western
 culture and education and the Chinese educational system. In some letters,
 Sam described the coeducational school system in America, the importance
 of mathematics and science subjects in the American school curriculum, and
 extracurricular activities such as sports, public speaking, and debate train
ing. He encouraged his son to pick up public speaking ability, and told him
 that oration was an important part of the Western school curriculum and that
 many famous intellectuals benefited from this training. Sam reminded his
 son that such training was not offered in traditional Chinese schools and was
Education as a Family Agenda
 131
 not available in every modern Chinese school. Yet if Tennyson planned to pur
sue more advanced study in America in the future, he needed that skill.
 In traditional Chinese education, memorization was important. Many
 Chinese parents believed that a child’s success in education depended mainly
 on a hardworking spirit and long hours of study. It was “strength of mind”
 or “conscientiousness” rather than talent that really mattered in educational
 accomplishment. As long as a child worked hard, he/she could make a good
 student. “Where there is a will, there will be a way” is a typical Chinese prov
erb that most parents have used to encourage children to study hard; Sam
 quoted this proverb several times in his letters. Although Sam was not against
 educational reform modeled after Western education, he urged his son to cling
 to study habits always valued by Chinese. Sam believed that human memory
 was good at an early age and his son’s major responsibility when young was
 to study. Although the content of education in China was drastically changed,
 the attitude of his children towards study should, Sam believed, remain the
 same: study hard when young. As a transnational parent, Sam was very ob
servant of the strengths and weaknesses in both the Chinese and the Ameri
can educational systems.
 Sam’s involvement was helpful. Tennyson was making good progress
 and becoming an all-round student. In another letter, Sam wrote,
 I am happy to learn that you are the president of the student asso
ciation and the general editor of the school newspaper Tongsheng
 Bao, and have won an award in public speech at the school. But do
 not feel self-conceited for what you have achieved. You should know
 that it is not difficult to possess talent, but difficult to have integ
rity. Great people have both. The Chinese run the country with mo
rality, Europeans and Americans govern a nation with law, but this
 does not mean that Westerners ignore ethics. Most American presi
dents have been people with high integrity. Washington, Lincoln, and
 others were all people with both talent and integrity. Lincoln could
 emancipate black slaves because he was, first of all, a man of great
 integrity.5
 Sam’s discussion of famous American politicians in the letter indicates that
 many Chinese students were familiar with these names, from the influx of
 Western culture into China during the period. These politicians were prob
ably held up as role models for young people like his son. But, though re
specting these people, Sam did not want to deny Chinese traditional values
 as a cultural influence on his son’s character development. His letter implies
132
 The Transnational History
 that, though China was run by morality and the West by law, ethics is impor
tant in any society and therefore integrity was more valuable than talent for
 a person anywhere. With regard to his son’s accomplishment at school, Sam
 sounded like a typical Chinese parent when he told Tennyson not to be self
conceited after winning an award.
 From Reading House to Modern School
 When Constance (Yuhua) was nine years old, Sam decided to switch
 her from a shuguan (reading house) in the village to a xuetang (modern
 school) in Guangzhou. Sam asked Tennyson to send him detailed informa
tion about prospective schools that Constance might attend. As the quality
 of the modern schools was uneven, he was very careful in selecting one for
 his daughter, and tried to find as much information as possible before he made
 his decision. In a letter, Sam wrote:
 Next year, your sister Yuhua has no shuguan to go to in the village.
 She should go to a xuetang in the provincial capital city. But many
 xuetang in Guangzhou are poor in quality. The grades of students at
 these xuetang are too low. I am afraid she cannot learn much there.
 It is necessary for Yuhua to have some solid basic training in Chi
nese language before going to those schools. I wonder how many
 words Yuhua has learned to write so far. The alphabet system is a
 new thing. It is simple and can help the Chinese language develop a
 standard pronunciation. Comparing Shuzheng and Rouhuai School,
 I think Shuzheng is better. Send Yuhua to Shuzheng next year. The
 total cost of annual tuition, books, food, and boarding is about sixty
 dollars, which is not very high. You can borrow money from your
 second uncle. If he does not have it, ask your mother to borrow it
 from someone else. We will pay it back soon. After your sister Yuhua
 learns some basic Chinese at the school, I will try to get her and
 your mother to come to America in a couple of years. School tu
ition costs too much money in China. Tuition is free in American
 elementary, middle, and high schools.6
 As the letter indicates, Sam had read the curriculum and brochure of two el
ementary schools and made a careful comparison before selecting one for
 Constance. Under his arrangement, she left the rural village and attended
 modern schools in Guangzhou before joining him in America.
Education as a Family Agenda
 133
 As an overseas Chinese parent, Sam cared about his daughter’s as well
 as his son’s education. Although footbinding for women had been banned,
 and modern schools had been established available to girls as well as boys,
 this was still a period when many rural Chinese families could not afford to
 send daughters to school. Girls’ schools in cities were few and expensive. As
 an immigrant parent, Sam used the money he made in American to send his
 daughter to school.
 After Constance began at the Shuzheng School, Sam followed up on
 her life and study there. Soon he discovered that the campus culture of the
 Shuzheng School did not live up to his expectations. In another letter, he
 wrote, “I am very upset to know that Yuhua learned to smoke at school. I
 hear that many girls in her school are smoking. It is clear that the teachers
 are not morally responsible for the students. Ask your mother to switch Yuhua
 to another school.”7 During this period, many modern schools in China were
 newly established and did not have codes of student behavior. Young people
 were exposed to many sorts of ideas. Biographical tales of rebellious West
ern women, like Joan of Arc, were translated and often were held up as role
 models in girl’s schools. New thoughts and Western fads flooded China’s
 larger cities. Smoking cigarettes, especially Western brands, was probably
 such a fad, imitated as a Western lifestyle by many Chinese female students,
 female as well as male. Although Sam intended his daughter to receive a mod
ern education, he did not want to see her smoking, or tarnished with an un
desirable lifestyle. Sam held the school teachers responsible for this behavior,
 because he felt that teachers should make students focus on studies rather
 than follow a social vogue. Sam was so disturbed that he wrote directly to
 Constance to stop her smoking:
 I have received your letter and Tingxun’s letter of November 16. You
 should not stay in that school too long. Next year, you should switch
 to Zhenguang School, which has an elementary girls’ section and is
 a good school. I hear you started to smoke, which has made me very
 upset. You are only thirteen and should know that this is a bad habit.
 You should really change to a different school. Very few countries
 allow women to smoke in public. In America, you could hardly find
 one woman out of ten thousand who could smoke. If there is one,
 she must be a low-class woman. Decent women never smoke. In a
 train or ship, there is usually a smoking room. People are allowed to
 smoke only there. In our family history, several decades ago, the third
 and sixth aunt and the fifth grandma smoked. But at that time, it
134
 The Transnational History
 was just a social habit like foot-binding for women. Now society for
bids this habit. Smoking is as bad as binding feet for women. You
 should give up smoking immediately. Otherwise, the whole family
 including your grandparents, parents, uncles and aunts, and all de
cent people will not forgive you. If you smoke on the ship to America,
 Westerners will look down on you as a low-class woman.8
 Being a transnational parent enabled Sam to more convincingly persuade
 Constance to quit smoking, by dubbing it a habit disdained in both Chinese
 and Western society, and by labeling smoking among women a lower-class
 practice in America. Being in America, he could discuss lifestyle and social
 vogues in a Western society in an authoritative tone. He obviously thought
 that students at his daughter’s school regarded smoking as a Western fashion
 and pursued it as a modern lifestyle. His daughter, he seemed to feel, prob
ably learned smoking along with many of her schoolmates. It is interesting
 that Sam treated women’s smoking as old-fashioned, like the footbinding tra
dition in Chinese society. In the nineteenth century, some women of the
 wealthy families in rural Guangdong did smoke tobacco or opium. But it was
 not a prevailing custom and had nothing to do with the smoking trend in a
 girl school. Since the influence of Western culture was overwhelmingly strong
 over the young people in China during this period, Sam was only labeling
 such smoking an old-fashioned habit to stop his daughter.
 Ironically, Sam’s letter reflects how a traditional Chinese family ap
proached problematic behavior in its children. According to Sam, his
 daughter’s smoking was not solely an issue about her own lifestyle. The ill
 reputation of her smoking could bring embarrassment to the whole extended
 family. The letter indicates that watching over one’s children’s education was
 a very demanding responsibility as China underwent tremendous social re
forms. Even while working in America, Sam had to keep a close eye on China.
 Sam’s decision to switch Constance to Zhenguang School was based
 on his careful observation of modern schools in Guangzhou. Zhenguang
 started as a school for women, established by American missionaries in 1868.
 At the beginning, it provided a Bible class for religious purposes, and a girl’s
 class and an adult women’s class for educational purposes. Sam was initially
 concerned about the school’s Christian culture and tuition cost, and there
fore first selected Shuzheng School for Constance. As its educational cur
riculum and teaching quality became more established, the Zhenguang School
 was, in 1912, transformed into a formal girl’s middle school with an elemen
tary division.9 By the 1920s, Zhenguang became one of the best schools in
Education as a Family Agenda
 135
 Guangzhou. Sam quickly switched Constance to Zhenguang when campus
 culture at Shuzheng disappointed him. Tuition cost and Christian cultural
 background became secondary considerations; as a parent, Sam cared mainly
 about the quality of education, and felt that Constance should stay away from
 the bad influences at Shuzheng. Many missionary schools like Zhenguang
 were initially established for religious purposes but quickly converted into
 more comprehensive educational institutions when the civil service exami
nation system was abolished and modernization created a large demand for
 modern schools. Improvement of educational quality was how such schools
 attracted an educated Chinese parent like Sam, heavily influenced by Confu
cianism. From Sam’s careful analysis of the vernacular prose style in his son’s
 essay, and from his stern warning of his daughter to quit smoking, we see
 this effect, as well as how meticulously he watched over his children’s edu
cation in China, as a father and overseas parent.
 The Family Letter as a Channel of Moral Education
 Sam’s daughter Constance once wrote in her student notebook the fol
lowing paragraph about the importance of letter writing:
 Letter-writing is a kind of Chinese literature. It has always been the
 most natural and emotional writing. There are two kinds of letter
writing: one is to family; and another is to friends. As for family
 letter-writing, the best is by Mr. Zeng Wenzheng [Zeng Guofan’s
 courtesy name] and Zheng Banqiao.10
 Zeng was a senior government official in the late Qing government, while
 Zheng was a famous Chinese poet and painter. The paragraph is just one of
 Constance’s numerous Chinese writing exercises, required by Sam after she
 arrived in America. However, this short paragraph also illustrates how letter
 writing functioned as an important communication channel, a vehicle of moral
 education in Chinese family culture, and was used as a composition writing
 exercise for children. After Constance spent a couple of years at Zhenguang
 School, Sam brought her over to the United States, where public schools cost
 no tuition. Shortly after Constance arrived in Los Angeles in 1923, with her
 mother, Cen, she started to write letters to Tennyson and other relatives in China.
 Letter writing for Constance was both an exercise of her Chinese writ
ing ability and a training in communication skills in the family culture. She
 usually drafted the letters in her student notebook first, then copied them down
 on letter paper before mailing them. Sam also drafted his letters first and then
136
 The Transnational History
 formally copied them on letter paper, sometimes in Chinese calligraphy and
 sometimes in pen. This is how he came to leave the huge collection of his
 personal letters.
 Letter writing is important in Chinese culture. Family members, rela
tives, and friends, it is felt, should properly address each other, and articu
late thoughts and ideas, in their writing. Parents and children used this channel
 to exchange both information and emotion, since many Chinese did not like
 to orally express affection, anger, or other emotions to one another. Emotional
 opinions and sensitive subjects, when too difficult to be verbalized aloud,
 could be conveyed in writing. More important, parents could use family let
ters to teach their children family values and traditions, and to influence their
 moral character with ethical examples in family history or famous quotations
 from established scholars. Thus letter-writing could be a vehicle to exchange
 intimate feeling between family members, or a channel for parents to deliver
 moral preachings.
 Following this tradition, education was not the only topic in Sam’s let
ters to his children. Filial piety, reverence to elders, family history, children’s
 obligations and responsibility to the family were also important topics. Split
 family life could impact family relations. Parents might neglect their respon
sibilities to their children and lose control of their children’s character for
mation when a family was split apart. In return, children could ignore their
 obligations to family and the expectations of parents about their education.
 Sam was keenly aware of such possibilities and in his letters often discussed
 what family obligation meant. He viewed letter-writing as a major channel
 of communication with his children about their lives, and as a way to influ
ence their identity formation. In the correspondence, Sam’s children some
times frankly expressed their emotions and differing opinions, to challenge
 their parents’ views. Social problems in China were also discussed and de
bated between the parents and children. The Chang family letters show how
 intimately, in a Chinese family, children and parents could exchange ideas,
 opinions, and feelings. In the Changs’ correspondence, we see how Sam and
 his children, though separated, lived in a culturally linked transnational so
cial landscape.
 Among the many books Sam discussed with his children in the corre
spondence, he particularly recommended Zengguo Fan’s Family Letters to his
 son. Zeng was a highly respected senior official and a scholar of the late Qing
 Dynasty, and many of his writings, especially his letters to family members
 and friends, were edited into books and widely circulated in Chinese society.
 Sam wrote in one letter:
Education as a Family Agenda
 137
 You must have received my no.1 letter of January 29. How is your
 study recently? What about Yuhua, Yuan, Qu, and Wei? Do they study
 hard at school? I wonder if your second uncle has received Ciyuan
 (Lexical Dictionary), Selection of Wang Yang-ming, and other books
 that I had my friend mail to him from Shanghai. After all of you
 read them, send them to me and I will read them myself. I wonder
 if you have read Zeng Guofan’s Family Letters. If you are very busy
 with your study, you can just read the first three volumes of Wang’s
 books, beginning with The Chronicle of His Life, and two volumes
 of Family Discipline and Chronology in Zeng’s writings. It will not
 take long if you read those books first. To finish other volumes may
 cost a lot of time; you can read them later. I have planned to read all
 the classics on Chinese culture beginning with books on Yao and
 Shun to Xuantong Emperor, and all the writings of ancient schol
ars. But I am too busy with farming and only have time to read from
 seven to nine in the evening. In our Confucian system, education was
 divided into two parts, general education and specialized education.
 In the German and French educational systems, they emphasize in
tellectual development, while British education focuses on charac
ter development. In the United States, they emphasize practical
 training.11
 Sam probably heard of a new edition of Zeng’s writings in Shanghai and had
 his friend there send the books to his brother and son to read. Although Zeng
 did not intentionally write letters for publication, many of his letters to fam
ily members contained ideas and principles on how a government official or
 elite wealthy family should train and discipline children to continuously main
tain the high social status of the family. Zeng’s descendants took his words
 as jiaxun (family guidelines). Thus, when Zeng’s family letters were edited
 and published as a book, it became highly influential on family-ethics edu
cation during the late Qing and early Republic periods, in the 1910s and
 1920s. In Zeng’s discussion, a hardworking spirit, thrifty lifestyle, respect to
ward elders, modesty in public life, and obligation to family (by both men
 and women) were regarded as essential qualities that children of an elite family
 needed to learn to assure that the prosperity and social status of the family
 would continue. Zeng’s writing was widely read as a guide to familial moral
 upbringing in Chinese society. Sam probably had his own family history in
 mind when he recommended Zeng’s writings to his son. The Chang family
 had already declined by Sam’s father’s generation, due to intense family feuds.
138
 The Transnational History
 Sam wanted his son to understand the ethical teachings in Zeng’s writing, to
 learn to live a simple life and study hard. Through accomplishment in edu
cation, Tennyson was expected to dutifully fulfill his obligation to the Chang
 family. Not only did Sam urge his son to read Zeng Guofan’s family corre
spondence; his own letters were often filled with ethnical and moral advice.
 He believed that a sense of obligation to family and a good character would
 inspire Tennyson to study hard at school even away from home.
 Constance’s comments on Zeng Guofan and Zheng Banqiao’s letters,
 in her Chinese writing exercise, shows that letter writing was an important
 genre of literature in Chinese society. Selected letters of famous scholars or
 social elites were no longer private documents but published texts for gen
eral readers. Ethical teachings in such letters provided guidelines on family
 relations and on behavior in family culture. Ordinary Chinese used such let
ters as models in their own letter writing. Parents like Sam asked their chil
dren to develop letter writing, based on those texts, as a communication skill.
 When Constance arrived in America, Sam asked her to write letters on a regu
lar basis for the family. Sometimes she wrote letters on behalf of her par
ents, sometimes for herself; within the first two months, she wrote a dozen
 letters to relatives and friends. Family correspondence in Chinese culture is
 not necessarily a communication between one individual and another, but
 rather a vehicle networking the entire family. The Chang family letters show
 us how closely Chinese immigrants and relatives communicated when apart.
 In her first letter to Tennyson, Constance wrote: “The Steamship Wilson ar
rived in the United States at eight clock p.m. on October 5th. The next day,
 we went to Angel Island. On the 15th, we had our interrogation. On the 16th,
 we went to Dabu [San Francisco]. A few days later, we arrived in Los Ange
les.”12 Constance used the Chinese lunar year calendar. Had she not, she
 would have indicated that they arrived in November 1923. According to this
 letter, the trip took them about a month, including several overnight stops in
 Shanghai, Japan, and Hawaii. They left Hong Kong in September and arrived
 in San Francisco in October. It was a relatively comfortable trip. The most
 difficult part of their travel was to prepare for the immigration interrogation,
 as we saw in chapter 5. Constance called San Francisco Dabu, which means
 “big port city”; Chinese immigrants created and used this name for San Fran
cisco beginning in the 1850s. Constance’s letter indicates that many Chinese,
 including children, in Guangdong had learned about San Francisco by the
 1920s.
 Under Sam’s guidance, Constance continued her study of the Chinese
 language after arriving in the United States, as evidenced by several dozen
Education as a Family Agenda
 139
 copied articles in her student notebooks. Copying was an important writing
 exercise in traditional Chinese education; it helped children practice hand
writing and remember the content of texts. Very likely, Constance brought
 some textbooks from China and simply copied articles assigned by Sam from
 those books. Whatever the case, the articles she copied in her notebook were
 usually about famous people in China or the West, such as Hai Rei, Zeng
 Guofan, Sun Yatsen, Columbus, and Bismarck.13 Obviously, knowledge about
 other countries had already been part of her schooling in China.
 In a letter to Tennyson, Sam expressed his satisfaction over Constance’s
 progress in the Chinese language: “Your sister studies very hard. In her spare
 time, I teach her Chinese and she makes progress in Chinese every day.”14
 To maintain and improve Constance’s Chinese language ability, Sam attempted
 to hire a Chinese student as a tutor. In 1924, Constance wrote to a potential
 teacher on behalf of her mother:
 Mr. Ruo Yao, we are pleased to receive your letter. In regard to your
 tutoring position, my mother has a woman friend who came from
 Shunde County. Her husband is a Chinese doctor and they have two
 sons who also need tutoring. They like to pay twenty dollars a month
 including food and boarding. You can go to your school during the
 daytime, and come back home to teach the children from 6 to 8 p.m.
 They would appreciate your help in the kitchen when you have time.
 You can also take more students for extra money if they are avail
able. My mother said there are another two or three students who
 want this position. Please inform us if you would like to come.15
 The offer to the tutor was a fairly good one at that time, and only a merchant
 Chinese family could afford to pay for such tutoring. As the letter indicates,
 Sam and another Chinese herbalist family would share the cost. Both fami
lies demonstrated commitment to procuring a Chinese education for their chil
dren. However, it is not clear if Sam and the other Chinese family sought
 someone to teach only the vernacular Chinese, or both vernacular and clas
sical Chinese.
 Upon arriving in Los Angeles, Constance and her mother stayed in
 Yitang’s herbal residence, as it was close to school. As an immigrant student,
 Constance studied hard; in two years, she finished elementary school and went
 into junior high. In a letter to her maternal grandmother, she wrote that, in
 addition to following the regular school schedule, she attended summer classes
 and was able to skip a grade. She also made rapid progress in English. In
 another letter to her brother, she wrote:
140
 The Transnational History
 Dear Brother: I received your letter a long time ago, yet have been
 too busy to reply sooner due to my heavy school work. Did you re
ceive my English letter that I wrote you last time? I have moved up
 another grade—the sixth grade. Next year I will enter junior high.
 Mother said today is your birthday. Cousin Qu and Wei work hard
 on the farm. Baby Sister Chu is learning to speak. My English name
 is called Constance and Sister Chu is Estelle.16
 In another letter to a cousin on the same day, Constance wrote that English
 was easier than Chinese because English only had twenty-six letters while
 Chinese had many characters and did not have a spelling system. As
 Constance wrote English letters and introduced her English name to her
 brother, bilingual and bicultural lifestyle began to take roots in their life.
 To maintain his daughter’s bilingual ability, Sam also required
 Constance to read Chinese language newspapers. Many news items from
 China, however, seemed depressing to Constance. In a letter to a relative, she
 wrote:
 What is the situation in Guangzhou now? Yesterday, I learned from
 a Chinese newspaper that the British policemen used machine guns
 to shoot students to death in our country without proper reasons. Alas,
 our country is too weak and often bullied by others! As Chinese na
tionals, we have our responsibility to save China. Please let me know
 if any woman’s movement occurs in Guangdong. Recently I hear that
 the Western powers are willing to return tariff authority to China.
 So our country is still hopeful.17
 The patriotic tone in the letter seems too mature for the voice of a junior
 high student. But the tyrannical behavior of foreigners in China, Chinese re
sistance against colonialism, and the women’s liberation movement was in
deed the concern of young Constance in her letter. The letter also indicates
 how closely an average Chinese immigrant family followed events in China,
 using Chinese-language newspapers.
 Tennyson at Lingnan School
 In making arrangements for his family to immigrate, Sam first sent for
 his wife, Cen, and his daughter, Constance. Although Tennyson was his only
 son, and a teenager at the time, Sam asked him to stay behind. While Cen
 was very upset at leaving Tennyson alone in China, Sam believed this was
 the sacrifice the boy had to make in order to get a good and marketable edu
Education as a Family Agenda
 141
 cation. Tennyson had been studying in Tongzhi School for three years and
 was a very conscientious student. He was the school newspaper editor, had
 won an award for public speaking, and could write smooth expository es
says. In a letter of 1922, Sam explained to Tennyson why he sent for Cen
 and Constance but left him behind:
 We are planning to bring your mother and sister to America first.
 But your mother does not want to leave you alone in China. You are
 still very young. Her concern reflects true affection from a mother
 to a son, which I understand. But U.S. immigration laws are becom
ing tougher and tougher. Some people have recently proposed bills
 to totally ban Asian immigration to America. So Asian people should
 come as soon as possible. Schools are free for children here, while
 English is also a popular language in the world. It is a disadvantage
 to be in the United States without knowing some English. English
 training, however, is not popular in girl’s schools in China yet. Al
though the attached elementary school of Lingnan College does of
fer good English classes, it costs too much money. Since Yuhua has
 already studied a few years of Chinese in Guangzhou, she should
 come to America and study English for a few years. Upon graduat
ing from an American high school, she could go to Beijing Univer
sity without taking an examination and her college education there
 would cost much less money. That is why I want them to come to
 America now.18
 As Sam explained in the letter, his arrangement was to balance Constance’s
 educational needs with the financial capacities of the family. He probably
 had done some research on admission policies of Chinese universities toward
 students from overseas. Although Constance could attend Lingnan School in
 Guangzhou, American schools were free and her high school education in
 the United States would then help her gain entry into a good Chinese univer
sity. Tennyson, however, would soon need to go to high school. If Sam brought
 him to California for this, language and cultural differences might hinder his
 chances to get into a good American college, but if he went to a good high
 school in China, one where competent English language training was offered,
 and then enrolled in a good Chinese university, Tennyson would stand a strong
 chance of transferring into an American college or being admitted into a
 graduate program at an American university.
 At that time, a number of prestigious Chinese universities sent quali
fied students to study overseas every year, and Sam hoped Tennyson might
142
 The Transnational History
 enter such a university. In leaving Tennyson behind, he actually had a higher
 expectation for his son than for his daughter, and was prepared to invest more
 money in the son’s education.
 Sam continuously encouraged Tennyson to know Chinese well before
 coming to the United States. He wrote: “You are now sixteen and should study
 hard to have a good command of Chinese before you come here to study En
glish, which is not so difficult. No great scholar can write a good article in
 English if his written Chinese is poor.”19 Then Sam reminded his son that
 the United States was only a place where people came for economic reasons:
 “If you want to achieve eminence and status, America is not necessarily the
 right place. But if you want to make money to help your family out of tem
porary difficulties, no other country’s money is worth more than the Ameri
can dollar.”20 Sam’s letter demonstrates his perception of immigration as
 downward mobility for educated and professional Chinese. He believed that
 few educated Chinese could find a fine career in the United States and achieve
 prominence there, and advised his son to think of his future in China.
 Living in the Los Angeles area, Sam sometimes invited University of
 Southern California scholars or students from China for tea or dinner at his
 house, and used them as role models for his children. Most planned to re
turn to China. Several, including sociologist Lei Jieqiong and physical sci
entist Wu Daqiu, became prominent intellectual leaders or scientists when
 they returned to China after their graduate studies. From Sam’s perspective,
 young people with high inspirations should think of China as their future. In
 his advice to his siblings and children, Sam always encouraged them to re
turn there.
 However, Sam believed that the most marketable education for his chil
dren would be gained by their attending schools in both China and the United
 States. English language ability was also an important skill; Sam urged his
 son to study where English training was competent. His first choice for the
 youth was Qinghua College in Beijing, an excellent university that sent hun
dreds of Chinese students to study abroad every year:
 If you cannot apply to Qinghua in Beijing this July, try it next year.
 Now you have been at Tongzhi School for three years. You will gradu
ate in one more year. You can apply to Qinghua after graduation. If
 you cannot get into Qinghua, apply to Lingnan. After graduation from
 Lingnan, try to get into Beijing University. Then you can apply to
 an American university. But this plan costs a lot of money and takes
 too much time.21
Education as a Family Agenda
 143
 Later he wrote: “Lingnan is a good school for English language training. You
 should be able to pick up enough English there, before you apply to Qinghua
 or Beijing University. Then you could apply to come to America.”22 At that
 time, English ability was not only useful in applying to an American univer
sity, but was also helpful for Chinese youth in good Chinese universities like
 Qinghua where, because of Western influences, many courses were taught in
 English. Admission into a prestigious school like Lingnan in Guangdong,
 Qinghua in Beijing, or Nankai in Tianjin would enable Tennyson to get a stu
dent visa when applying to an American university. Entering the United States
 on a student visa was a lot easier than entering as an immigrant. Chinese
 Exclusion laws did not ban the entry of students, and immigration officers
 sometimes were more lenient when questioning student applicants. Sam
 wrote:
 After studying in Lingnan School for one or two years, you won’t
 need “coaching papers” to come to the United States. You could apply
 for a visa directly from the American Counsel and be spared the com
plicated paperwork and rough interrogation. You should apply to
 Qinghua College or study in Lingnan. If you cannot get into Qinghua,
 you should try to get into Nankai in Tianjin. Then you can come to
 America for a college education. This is the best arrangement.23
 Here Sam did not just plan an immigration scheme, but actually mapped out
 an ideal educational route for his son. The ultimate goal was to get a good
 education in the United States through obtaining an exchange student status,
 which also meant much less hassle in the admission process. Although pres
tigious schools like Qinghua or Nankai could provide Tennyson an excellent
 modern education, a diploma from an American university was a necessary
 steppingstone for a college graduate to attain a good career in China. As Rose
 Hum Lee notes, a more calculated plan of a Chinese family for its children’s
 education in the early twentieth century included studying at missionary
 schools at an early age, and later at institutions of higher learning that em
phasized Western curricula. A good command of English from these schools
 paved the way for study abroad. The degree obtained in a foreign institution
 became the criterion for upward mobility and an established place in the Chi
nese social hierarchy.24
 Tennyson went to study in Lingnan in 1923, following Sam’s plan. Even
 though Sam was impressed by the school’s quality, he still had reservations
 about its religious aspect:
144
 The Transnational History
 The newspaper began to carry news about Qinghua College’s en
trance examination information. I do not know the exact date but I
 hear it is held only every three years. You should really plan to take
 it. Unless you fail to get into Qinghua, you can try Lingnan, which
 is known as a school of New Culture in Guangzhou. Although
 Lingnan is an excellent school, its curriculum contains religious el
ements. I hear that the school will force you to be a Christian when
 you enter the third grade. That is really not good.25
 Established by American missionaries in 1888 through the merger of several
 small missionary schools, Lingnan was called Canton Christian College be
fore 1916. It began to attract Chinese students after it offered English courses.
 Then it gradually developed into a university with a high school section, af
ter receiving donations from overseas Chinese, especially Chinese merchants
 from Southeast Asia.26 As one of the best colleges and high schools in
 Guangzhou, Lingnan attracted many talented local students, and did not force
 them to convert to Christianity. With strong ties to the overseas Chinese com
munity, Lingnan also had special curricula for overseas Chinese students.
 Going North for Education
 Sam’s dream school for his son was Qinghua College in Beijing. He
 repeatedly urged his son to apply for Qinghua, which was established in 1911
 from Boxer Indemnity Funds and functioned to prepare Chinese students to
 study abroad, mainly in Europe and the United States. As one of the most
 prestigious universities in China, it had a faculty consisting of some of the
 most distinguished scholars in China, and its admission policy was highly
 selective. Only the brightest Chinese youth had a chance of being admitted.
 Once admitted, many of the students would have an opportunity to study in
 universities in America or Europe with financial aid. According to Rose Lum
 Lee, Qinghua sent over two thousand Chinese students to American univer
sities in the first half of the twentieth century.27
 Sam’s third brother, Elbert, received a Qinghua fellowship, as a Chi
nese student, while studying at Georgetown University. This fellowship pro
vided him, for three years, with an annual stipend of 480 dollars. Without
 the fellowship, according to Sam, Elbert could not have finished his medical
 degree.28 Although it is not clear how Elbert got this fellowship, as he at
tended high school in the United States, here is another example of how the
 Chang family used resources on both sides of the Pacific.
Education as a Family Agenda
 145
 Like many Chinese parents, Sam regarded Qinghua as a dream univer
sity for his son. He hoped that Tennyson was competitive enough to get ad
mitted there so that he could have an excellent education and also a
 scholarship to study in America. But Sam had a second choice for his son—
 Nankai School, in Tianjin. In a letter, he wrote:
 Next year, if you fail to get into Qinghua College, you should try
 Nankai. After graduation, you can still apply to American universi
ties. You can make friends there, and you will know both Southern
 and Northern culture in China and become a real Chinese. One year
 is enough for you to study in Lingnan. Next July, you should go to
 Beijing and take the examination. Should you fail, go back to
 Lingnan and wait for your next opportunity.29
 Sam also commented on the difference between Lingnan and these schools
 in the North:
 I don’t find many graduates from Lingnan getting admitted into
 American universities directly. They usually take pre-college courses
 for six months or a year if they want to attend universities in the
 southwestern part of America, and two or three years if they want to
 study at Yale or Columbia University. On the East Coast, universi
ties are better than those in the West or Southwest. But graduates
 from Beijing University, Nankai, or Qinghua College can go directly
 to the East Coast universities.30
 To urge his son to study in the North, Sam told Tennyson that his friend Fan
 Yuanlian, president of Beijing Normal University, had spoken highly of
 Nankai, and mentioned that Liang Qichao was a history professor there. Sam
 also mentioned that the school was founded and headed by two famous in
tellectuals, Yan Xiu and Zhang Boling. Sam emphasized their names several
 times in his letters, in encouraging his son to study at Nankai. Obviously Sam
 was familiar with the names of leading intellectuals in China.
 To encourage Tennyson to study in the North, Sam informed him that
 other family members would join him in China for education in the near
 future.
 You should not come to the United States in a hurry and miss this
 important opportunity in your life. Even Aunt Xin and sister Yuhua
 will go back to China to join you when we have enough money for
 the tuition. After their graduation from American elementary and
 high school, we plan to send them back to study for two or three
146
 The Transnational History
 years in Yanjing (Yenching) Woman’s University, Beijing University,
 or the Advanced Woman’s Normal University in Beijing so that they
 will know Chinese language and society.31
 Meanwhile, Sam’s third brother Elbert, with a medical degree from an Ameri
can university, received an offer to work in Beijing Union Medical College
 as an intern, in August 1924.
 Your third uncle might teach and work as a doctor at Beijing
 Rockefeller College [Beijing Union Medical College]. Rockefeller
 is the wealthiest person in America and the world, and has estab
lished universities in many other countries. If your uncle gets this
 job, you would not be lonely studying there and could also learn a
 lot of Western culture from your uncle. By the way, most Chinese
 named Zhang spell their surname as “Chang.” Students from the
 North all use this spelling on their passports when they come to
 America. But people in Guangdong use all kinds of spelling, such
 as “Chung,” “Jung,” or “Cheung.” When you go to the North, use
 “Chang” so that people will not laugh at you.32
 Arranging for his son to go to the North tells us how a Chinese parent like
 Sam would not hesitate to send his children from home for education, espe
cially for a better quality of education. Schools such as Nankai would pro
vide Tennyson not only with a good Chinese education but also with the
 culture of another metropolitan city of China. As a city in the North, Tianjin
 was very close to Beijing, the dynastic capital as well as a cultural center for
 hundreds of years. Educated Cantonese like Sam regarded Beijing and North
ern culture as a more original and authentic Chinese culture. As Sam’s letter
 indicates, he told Tennyson that the more correct way to spell his last name
 was “Chang” (rather than “Chung”). Studying, working, and living in North
 China would enable Tennyson and other Chang family children to learn and
 absorb Northern dialects, customs, and traditions. They would develop new
 identities and view themselves more as Chinese than as Cantonese. Educa
tion was a socialization process. To attend schools or work in the North gave
 children an opportunity to learn other parts of China and participate in a na
tional rather than a local culture.
 While studying in Nankai might eventually help Tennyson gain oppor
tunities to come to America, Sam still planned his son’s future in China. But
 Sam encouraged him to think about a career in China outside Guangdong
 Province. In a letter, Sam noted:
Education as a Family Agenda
 147
 If you can get into Qinghua, its scholarship will cover both your tu
ition and travel to study in America. You will save a lot of money
 for your grandpa. Otherwise I hear that one of the most successful
 professional schools in Beijing is a school of taxation, where all ex
cept one of the professors are Westerners. If you can’t get into
 Qinghua or Beijing University, you can try this school. After gradu
ation, you can work and see other places, and your salary will be
 about seventy dollars a month in the first year. There will be a raise
 every year. If you don’t want to work in China anymore, you will
 have a chance to study abroad, though you may have to pay your
 own tuition as your grandpa is getting old. In the recent several de
cades in America, tax policy has been the focus of political debates
 between Republicans and Democrats. If the Republicans come to
 power, there will be a raise in import tariff and a drop in export tar
iff in order to benefit the capitalist class. If the Democrats come to
 power, the policy will be the reverse to benefit the working class. In
 our country, a great deal can be accomplished in this field when we
 take back sovereignty of our tariff control.33
 Sam tried to convince his son that he could have an excellent career and a
 quick avenue to social prominence in China through a college education in
 America: as a developing country, China needed Western-trained professionals.
 While he was encouraging his son to leave Guangdong for North China,
 Sam probably did some research on North China. In another letter, he pro
vided Tennyson with specific instructions on how to travel from Guangdong
 to Tianjin:
 You should reserve your ship ticket through Hongfa or Tai-an Ho
tel. When your departure time is due, the hotel will contact you, in
struct you where to board, and take you to the ship. It will be three
 days from Guangdong to Shanghai. Then you stay for one or two
 days in Shanghai at the Hongfa Hotel, where there will always be
 Cantonese at your service. But there are many swindlers in Shang
hai. Most of the rickshaw men are thieves. You must be very care
ful. It will take four days from Shanghai to Tianjin. Taida Company
 offers a reasonable ship ticket. It will probably take about twelve dol
lars to get to Tianjin. The Chang clan has a relative who is a doctor
 in Tianjin. But we don’t have his address. You will stay in Tianjin
 for one day and take the train to Beijing the following day. You will
 arrive in Beijing at three o’clock in the afternoon. At the train station,
148
 The Transnational History
 there are many hotel agents. Choose Fuzhao Hotel and ask them to
 get you a rickshaw. The hotel is owned by Mr. Zhu of Qingyuan
 County of Guangdong and is located on Mule and Horse Market Av
enues in Beijing. It will cost you sixty to seventy cents a day. After
 one or two weeks, you will be familiar with Beijing. Streets in
 Beijing, Tianjin, and Shanghai are much wider than those in
 Guangzhou and easier to locate. You can also buy a train ticket to
 Tianjin and then buy the transfer ticket to Beijing. A second-class
 ticket will cost about thirty to forty dollars. In Shanghai, British
 money is more popular. In Beijing and Tianjin, French and Japanese
 money are popular.34
 Family documents do not tell us whether Sam had ever visited North and East
 China. By 1924, he had been away from China for nine years. But his de
scription of metropolitan cities like Shanghai or Beijing shows an intimate
 knowledge about life in China even though he was in the United States. The
 most fascinating part of the letter is his description of Cantonese networks
 that could assist Tennyson to travel all the way from Guangzhou through
 Shanghai to Tianjin and Beijing. Amazingly, Sam even knew the name of a
 Cantonese hotel owner in Beijing, and the owner’s home district. Such knowl
edge again tells us the importance of social networks in Cantonese culture.
 It demonstrates how the social networks of Guangdong extended everywhere
 in China, and how such networks were available for a traveling Cantonese.
 In a way, such networks paralleled the ethnic networks of the Chinese immi
grants in the United States and elsewhere.
 Sam’s comment on Shanghai, Beijing, and Tianjin also gives us a
 glimpse of the colonial traits of these cities. Shanghai was known as the para
dise of foreign adventurers in the early twentieth century, and was a very cha
otic city. “Shanghai,” when used as a verb, could literaly mean “kidnap.” This
 was why Sam asked his son to be very cautious there. Further, though a do
mestic traveler, Tennyson needed to know how to use foreign currency, as all
 these cities belonged to the spheres of influence of foreign powers.
 Nankai as a Modern School
 In the fall of 1924, Tennyson became a student in Nankai. Different
 social customs, weather, and dialect than he was used to made his initial stay
 uncomfortable. Shortly after he arrived in Tianjin, he wrote to his father, in
dicating he wanted to go back to Lingnan in Guangdong. Sam disagreed.
Education as a Family Agenda
 149
 When you arrive in a new place, don’t be too excited or too upset.
 Calm down and think of your future. You have arrived in Nankai only
 for a couple of months and don’t know it well yet. Lingnan can only
 produce some fluent English-speaking students. But your Chinese
 is not good enough yet. Only recently have you demonstrated some
 progress in Chinese. Don’t be upset. Stay there for a while and then
 apply to Qinghua.35
 As an immigrant, Sam certainly understood the cultural shocks his son might
 be going through in the North. As a parent, however, he was firm in his de
cision, as he knew what his son needed was a good foundation of Chinese
 and a better education than he had been getting. He told his son that the United
 States had begun to adopt a new education system: students there in the past
 had spent eight years in elementary school, but now they spent six, followed
 by six years in high school. In China, Nankai was one of the few schools
 that had adopted a similar system.
 Unlike Lingnan, Nankai was not a missionary school, though it was
 also under heavy Western influence. Two reformers, Yan Xiu and Zhang
 Boling, had founded Nankai in Tianjin in 1904 as a private boarding school
 for boys. The school became Nankai University in 1909.36 Originally the
 school developed a curriculum based on Japan’s educational system (at the
 turn of the century, Japan and the West were competing with each other for
 dominance in China). However, Zhang Boling, the president of Nankai, made
 a visit to the United States in 1908 and was deeply impressed by the Ameri
can education system. He particularly admired the Phillips Academy at
 Andover, Massachusetts. After the visit, Nankai explicitly adopted Phillips
 as its model. Soon the school grew into a coeducational institution and de
veloped into two campuses—a middle/high school and a university. Many of
 the students were children of middle-class or wealthy families. Nankai espe
cially welcomed children from overseas Chinese families, as they were pa
trons with foreign currency.
 As a student in the North, Sam knew, Tennyson would have a better
 chance of getting his visa approved—from the American consular office in
 Beijing—than would someone from Guangdong, where too many people ap
plied to go to the United States.
 Further, and more important to Tennyson’s education and learning of
 Chinese culture, Nankai used the vernacular in instruction. Sam wanted his
 son to learn how to speak and write the vernacular. During the May Fourth
 movement, radical intellectuals like Hu Shi strongly advocated that the
150
 The Transnational History
 vernacular replace classical Chinese, as a mechanism to modernize China,
 but the adoption of teaching in the vernacular was still slow in Guangzhou.
 At Nankai, in Tianjin, Tennyson would be able to learn the northern dialect,
 the verbal basis for the vernacular. Sam told his son:
 You will have a good opportunity to learn vernacular Chinese in the
 North. Guangzhou is not a proper place to study the vernacular be
cause of the strong influence of the local dialect. To study the vernacu
lar, you must read books by Hu Shi, who is the champion advocate
 of the vernacular. His writing is a good model. Hu recommends trans
lation of Western fiction, especially the translations of French au
thor A. Dumas by Jun Shu. I do not know who Jun Shu is. But he
 uses the vernacular rather than classical Chinese in his translation.
 It reads more creatively and can better convey the flavor of the origi
nal novel. It is much better than Lin Shu’s classical translation.37
 Like his previous writing, this letter reveals Sam’s keen interest and up-to
date knowledge of literary trends in China. As one of the pioneer translators
 of Western literary works in late Qing China, Lin Shu had translated
 Alexandre Dumas’s La dame aux camellias and published it in 1899.38 Sam
 had probably read Lin Shu’s translations before he left China; he would read
 Jun Shu’s translations from the magazines Tennyson mailed to him in Los
 Angeles. By citing the example of a famous translation of Western literature,
 he could point out the importance of learning the vernacular for an educated
 modern Chinese youth. It seemed to be a different educational emphasis than
 what Tennyson had received in Guangzhou. But the most important consid
eration in Sam’s decision was that Nankai was a better school than Lingnan.
 As a Chinese parent, he would not hesitate to relocate his child from home
 to the North for a better education.
 Tennyson’s adaptation to life at Nankai was actually quite smooth. He
 met with many students from a similar background, and could identify with
 two specific groups of students—those from Guangdong and those from an
 overseas Chinese family. He wrote his father that there were about 150
 Guangdong students in Nankai School and they formed a Guangdong Stu
dent Association. He joined the organization and made some friends there;
 he also mixed well with students from overseas. When Yuhua arrived in 1927,
 Tennyson had been elected as the president of the Overseas Chinese Student
 Association. Although he had never been to a foreign country, his immigrant
 family background enabled him to understand the cultural sensibilities of over
seas Chinese students.
Education as a Family Agenda
 151
 Nationalist Influence on Tennyson’s Life at Nankai
 Staying at Nankai, Tennyson was also able to visit Beijing and to see
 more of Tianjin, a cosmopolitan city in the North. He wrote to Sam:
 I traveled to Beijing during the winter vacation and stayed in a
 friend’s home about twenty days. I have no money left. Living ex
penses have gone up a lot. When I first arrived at Nankai, it only
 cost me five dollars a month for food. Now it cost nine dollars. Please
 mail me seventy American dollars. I like to see movies, though the
 tickets are expensive. There will be a new movie about American
 President Lincoln next weekend. We are going to see it. There is also
 a movie show every Saturday in Nankai, though students here have
 no manners and often scream during the show. I think American mov
ies are the best. Have you met any movie stars on the street? Tianjin
 is a good business city. Unfortunately it is tortured by continuous
 wars that have greatly affected its business. The best area in the city
 is the foreign settlement area. The Chinese area is shabby and poor,
 much worse than Canton. I have great sympathy for socialists and
 have changed many of my previous opinions. I feel very sad about
 contemporary China. I sympathize with socialists because they speak
 for the poor people and disdain the rich. I want to be a diplomat in
 the future. But what future do I have as a diplomat with today’s cor
rupt government. I have read a novel in English called The Citizen
 by James Francis Duyer, which is about a Russian who migrated to
 the New Continent—the United States—for happiness and freedom
 because of the political oppression in Russia. I was deeply moved
 by the novel. But when I think of the bitter experience of the mil
lions of overseas Chinese, I am at a loss what to believe.39
 The letter shows that American cultural influence was strong at Nankai, as
 students could regularly see American movies and read English novels. Tu
ition was also expensive at such a school: Tennyson worried about the rising
 cost of school life. Although Tennyson liked American movies, he would not
 so easily accept Hollywood’s depiction of America as a free and happy soci
ety for immigrants as would some of his Nankai schoolmates. Coming from
 Guangdong and an immigrant family, he had certainly heard a lot of sad sto
ries of Chinese immigrants in America, and the image of this country as a
 land of freedom precisely contradicted the experience of Chinese immigrants.
 Tennyson was studying in Nankai during a period when China was
152
 The Transnational History
 experiencing serious political instability. A corrupt government, social chaos,
 fighting between warlords, and foreign domination characterized Chinese so
ciety of the time. This dark social reality troubled Tennyson and probably
 many of his schoolmates, though they did not belong to the bottom of soci
ety but, rather, enjoyed a fairly comfortable life in this boarding school. Sam
 and his wife often worried when Tennyson did not write them frequently
 enough: “From your letter, we know that Tianjin is now tortured again by
 war. Since Tianjin is in a strategic location in the North, the military forces
 always fight for it. Your mother is very concerned about your safety as the
 city is often suffering from military violence.”40 Military battles between
 warlords over Tianjin often disrupted classes at Nankai and other universi
ties. The only safe place was a foreign settlement where Western countries
 had judicial and administrative authority. The warlords’ troops would usu
ally not enter, as the settlement was considered an enclave of foreigners and
 was protected by extraterritorial privileges. Such a place was left untouched,
 too, because the warlords needed financial and arms aid from foreign banks.
 Sam often asked Tennyson if he was able to escape to the foreign settlement
 when conflicts occurred.
 Although Tennyson, and later Constance, often went to the foreign
 settlement area for safety when local wars erupted, both children resented
 Western colonialism in China. After a visit to Qingdao, a city in Shangdong
 Province, Tennyson told Sam that the city looked like a Japanese territory,
 as there were so many Japanese houses and stores and the city was full of
 Japanese. Like many contemporary Chinese youth at that time, Tennyson was
 frustrated when he saw foreigners everywhere, who enjoyed all kinds of privi
leges in China. In contrast, he as a Chinese had to hide in a foreign enclave
 when warlords, often supported and financed by foreign powers, were fight
ing each other. While Sam often expressed concern over his son’s safety in
 his letters, Tennyson wrote about his frustration over China’s social problems.
 His anger is best revealed in a letter of 1927 in which he wrote:
 Father: how come China has become a country like this? Isn’t it true
 that our motherland needs revolutionaries more than the quiet middle
class professionals like bank clerks or railway station managers?! I
 think Nankai is a product of a feudal education system and that is
 why it advocates salvation of our motherland through education. But
 people should open their eyes wide and see how many families have
 gone bankrupt and cannot afford school for their children. Our so
ciety only creates elite students and trains young people to work for
Education as a Family Agenda
 153
 the comprador and landlord class. . . . Father, I am disappointed in
 this kind of education. I have a request for you. I want to study in
 Japan. I have many friends and schoolmates there. I want to enroll
 into the Japanese Army Academy. Father, I know you do not want
 me to go. You want me to get a diploma from Nankai as I am your
 only son. But have you not heard the continuous gun fighting and
 crying of our people who are suffering from cold and hunger? Please
 pray for your son and the liberty of a new Republic China. You should
 be proud of me if your son is willing to die for the country.41
 This was a period when Chinese youth were exposed to and influenced by
 all kinds of ideologies—social Darwinism, socialism, communism, anarchism,
 Japanese militarism. Tennyson’s emotional request reflects not only his own
 bitterness but also the deep frustration and disappointment in China’s politi
cal situation then felt by many Chinese youth. They felt that their country
 was faced with a national crisis, and that to study abroad must be to find a
 new solution to save China, rather than to pursue personal interest.
 Sam was very upset about this letter and he wrote back to scold his
 son for his “crazy” ideas:
 After reading your letter, I could not sleep. Your mother cried. We
 are all worried about you. We thought you were either sick or ex
pelled from the school for violating school codes. Your mother asked
 me to get you over to America as soon as possible. Grandpa is very
 angry, calling you a useless grandson. You have greatly disappointed
 me. Grandpa and your mother blamed me for having placed too much
 hope in you when I sent you to the North for education. You have
 made bad friends and come up with this crazy idea of going to the
 Japanese Army Academy. That school is not easy to get into, and
 Japan always has territorial ambition over our motherland. A man
 from Siyi called Zhang Ronghai applied to the Japanese Army Acad
emy after graduation from Nankai. He is still at a Japanese sergeant
 school, as the Academy refused to admit him because of his inad
equate Japanese language ability. A grandson of a Siyi man has also
 applied to the Academy but was rejected with a similar excuse. A
 son of Mr. Huang in Los Angeles left for Japan to enter the Acad
emy, after graduation from high school here. Failing to get admit
ted, he returned to China and now studies at Lingnan.
 Sam’s response reveals a large generation gap between the parent and child
 in their attitudes toward the national crisis, their sensitivity to social issues,
154
 The Transnational History
 and their understanding of educational goals. In Sam’s opinion, Tennyson’s
 patriotic emotion was stupid and a senseless daydream, and Tennyson’s an
ger at foreign domination in China became a mental sickness. Obviously,
 Tennyson’s letter was read to family members, as the whole family was up
set about his intention to go to Japan. Yitang and all other extended family
 members were involved in the discussion of how to change Tennyson’s mind
 about going to the Japanese Army Academy. Sam further wrote:
 Forget the crazy idea completely. Education is the only way to save
 China. The entire world understands the importance of education.
 No matter what a noble ideology or good policy you have, without
 a high degree of education, you cannot put them into practice. Ameri
can politics is not perfect. But compulsory education is an unchanged
 policy. After World War One, Japan and Germany could rebuild their
 commerce and industry rapidly because they had advanced educa
tional systems. Russia and Turkey are still suffering from chaos be
cause they had poor educational systems.
 Although interested in and supportive of social reforms in China, Sam be
came suspicious of those leading intellectuals who advocated radical social
 changes, when he saw how Tennyson had been influenced by their ideas. How
ever, he did not totally reject his son’s nationalist sentiment. In the rest of
 the letter, he emphasized that only education could save China, and also
 warned his son that politics was a dangerous thing:
 There are all kinds of ideologies proposed by all kinds of people.
 Chen Duxiu recommended communism, Cai Yuanpei advocated so
cialism, and Sun Yatsen was the first one to introduce socialism into
 China. Chen declared that communism would be realized in fifty
 years in every country. And it would be realized in China in a few
 years through education: young people with high inspiration should
 devote their lives to it. After reading Hu Shi’s works, I find Chen a
 radical. Young people should not be led astray by Chen Duxiu and
 devoted to politics. Ten years ago, a Chinese named Huang in Los
 Angeles advocated anarchism. As a vegetarian, he diligently stud
ied English by day and taught Chinese children in the evening. His
 father owned a laundry store. He advocated anarchism and commu
nism to whomever he met. He was well known in Chinatown. Then
 he was arrested by the American government, when political pam
phlets were found in his home.42
Education as a Family Agenda
 155
 Interestingly, Sam’s letter indicates how some overseas Chinese were influ
enced by radical ideologies such as anarchism or communism. At the turn of
 the century, increasingly modernized Japan drew a great exodus of students
 from China. As Jonathan Spence points out, “Japanese law and medical
 schools, military academies, departments of political science and econom
ics—all seemed to offer Chinese new hope at a time when that traditional
 Chinese ‘essence’ seemed every year more fragile in the face of the West’s
 overwhelming practical power.”43 For many Chinese youth at that time, a
 sense of urgency before national crisis and a passion to build China into a
 strong nation constituted the essential meaning of being a patriotic Chinese.
 As Sam and his son’s letters indicate, students from elite boarding schools
 like Nankai, children of immigrant families in Guangdong, and Chinese
 American youth in Los Angeles all desired to enter Japanese military acad
emies. Sam must have heard numerous cases of such youth eager to go to
 Japan, for he handily cited several examples of Cantonese youth interested
 in Japanese military schools in his letter to Tennyson. That Tennyson could
 hate Japanese colonialism in China but feel attracted to Japanese military
 school seems contradictory, but clearly shows how Chinese youth in the early
 twentieth century viewed Japan (and the West) as both enemy and teacher.
 When placed in historical context, Sam’s debate with his son illustrates how
 the study-abroad movement and nationalism were intricately intertwined in
 shaping the identity of Chinese youth both at home and abroad. These youth
 were eager to go overseas to study modern technology, science, and social
 science, but at the same were deeply upset about colonialism in China.
 Tennyson eventually gave up his idea of going to Japan and became
 more attentive to his studies. In his next letter, dated 25 February 1928, he
 promised that he would concentrate on his studies and get less involved in
 extracurricular activities. To make sure that his children concentrated on their
 studies, Sam requested reports of their grades. Although Sam was against
 Tennyson’s involvement in politics, he encouraged his son to take more so
cial science classes at Nankai and choose political science or international
 studies rather than medicine for his college major. Tennyson himself hesi
tated for awhile between selecting medicine or social sciences. As several
 members of the family were doctors, the medical career was alluring. But
 Sam believed Tennyson’s personality better fit the study of the social sciences.
 As he planned that his children’s future be based in China, he did not have
 to pressure them to major in engineering or science, as most Chinese immi
grant parents had to. The choice, however, was made by Tennyson himself.
 In general, Tennyson’s education at Nankai was rewarding and successful.
156
 The Transnational History
 He received a good Chinese cultural foundation before leaving for the United
 States.
 In 1929, Tennyson applied to the University of Southern California. His
 grades at Nankai were competitive enough to gain him admission, though he
 needed to change his Chinese name. Since Sam planned to bring him over
 on a student visa, the Chang family had already used his name “Tingxun” as
 a “paper son” slot for a cousin. In a letter of 1929, Tennyson wrote,
 I have read your letter of January 12. School has started for two days
 and everything is fine. Don’t worry about us. I have already sub
mitted the University of Southern California application form. I will
 use the name “Boxun” and the home address “De-an-chang, Hong
 Kong.” Is that O.K.? Tell me soon and send me more money imme
diately. Could you ask Ms. Lei about the application procedure for
 me?44
 Although immigration procedure forced Tennyson to use a different name,
 he made a careful choice of words in taking “Boxun” for his name change.
 In Chinese family culture, the words “bo, zhong, shu, ji” represent first, sec
ond, third, and forth in male sibling ranking. Since Tennyson was the eldest
 son of Sam and eldest grandson of Yitang, “Boxun” fit nicely as a Chang
 family name, though he lost his generation character “ting,” for immigration
 purposes. Still, his English name, “Tennyson,” sounded somewhat like his
 Chinese name “Tingxun.” In his reply letter, Sam assured Tennyson that the
 application procedure was fairly easy but he should clearly indicate that he
 could read and speak English, and that he would not work outside of school.
 Otherwise, he would be taken as a laborer and denied entry.45
 Joining the Family as a Foreign Student
 Tennyson arrived in San Francisco on 15 August 1929 without being
 detained at Angel Island Immigration Station. On the ship from China, he
 met a fellow traveler, from Enping County, the hometown of Tennyson’s
 mother, and helped him locate a relative in San Francisco. Tennyson called
 home from the relative’s house, then joined his parents in Los Angeles the
 following day, by train, after fourteen years of separation. During these long
 years, Yitang and Sam had sponsored dozens of young people of the Chang
 clan to enter the United States to work in the family herbal business or on
 the asparagus farms. But Tennyson stayed behind, because Sam did not want
 him to come as a laborer nor intend for him to inherit the farming business.
Education as a Family Agenda
 157
 An ideal career for his son was as a diplomat, or a scholar in China, rather
 than to be a second-class citizen in the United States. It is an ironic twist
 that Tennyson had to join his parents in America as a foreign student due to
 racist restrictions against the Chinese: such restrictions were undoubtedly what
 had convinced Sam that his son’s future was in China after college graduation.
 Even after Tennyson traveled to California, Constance stayed on in
 China to finish her high school and college education. Sam had detailed plans
 for his children’s education. Sam wrote, in a letter to his daughter:
 Your mother and I plan to retire in China after all of you finish your
 college educations. Hopefully, we will fulfill our plan in about ten
 years. For Tennyson, he will get a B.A. degree in Los Angeles, an
 M.A. at Columbia University, and a Ph.D. at Georgetown Univer
sity in Washington, D.C., where your third uncle studied. Then he
 will study in Europe for two years before I send him back to China,
 and work for the Foreign Ministry. If a position abroad is available,
 it should at least be a consul position. Otherwise, he will stay in
 China.46
 Thus, Sam’s plan for Tennyson’s bacalaureate and advanced degrees is not
 only detailed but calculated, as it includes Columbia, one of the best Ameri
can universities, and Georgetown University, known for its international stud
ies program. Degrees from such institutions would make Tennyson a very
 marketable professional should he look for a diplomatic career. Sam had a
 clear vision of his children’s educational needs during this period. He firmly
 believed that they should obtain education from both China and the West even
 though their future was in China. The educational goals he set for Tennyson
 would take perhaps ten years to fulfill, but a good education was a
 steppingstone for a promising career. Like many Chinese parents, Sam was
 willing to see his children’s education through to the end, and regarded this
 as his obligation. His hard work and personal sacrifice as an immigrant farmer
 was mainly for his children’s future.
 Shortly after his arrival in the United States, Tennyson began his col
lege education at the University of Southern California, using “Tennyson”
 as his English name. While attending college, he also worked part-time as a
 way to reduce the financial burden on his parents. Sam wrote, in a letter to
 Constance: “He also got a teaching job at the Los Angeles Chinese language
 school. Tennyson got an offer to teach Chinese at Zhonghua School for
 seventy-five dollars a month. It is pretty hard for him to go to college at eight
 in the morning and teach from four to seven at this school.”47 Although he
158
 The Transnational History
 still spoke English with an accent, Tennyson was able to actively participate
 in social activities. Nankai having provided him with good English training,
 he also won the first place in a public speech contest at the school. In March
 1931, Sam wrote to Constance, “Recently, Tingxun is busy lecturing every
where. On March 27, an Association of the International Studies invited him
 to speak on China. Later his speech was published in both Chinese and West
ern newspapers. Chinese community in Los Angeles was very impressed by
 his speech.”48 Sam was supportive of Tennyson’s participation in extracur
ricular work because many such activities related to the current situation in
 China. The Japan invasion of China directly affected the education of Chang
 family members in the home country. In a letter to his daughter, in 1932,
 Sam wrote:
 The “dwarf devils” [the Japanese] are now attacking Shanghai after
 having occupied the Northeast. Fortunately the Nineteenth Route
 Army fought hard against them. But the enemy is strong and we are
 weak. It is hard to say who will win. Under such a situation, World
 War Two will last very long, unless America and Russia get involved.
 If the “dwarf devils” deepen their aggression against our homeland
 from the Northeast, they will pass through Tianjin. In that case, you
 should evacuate to Hong Kong with your third and fourth uncles. It
 is a remote place and also a colony of Britain. Tennyson is very busy
 with anti-Japanese campaigns here. Zhonghua Huiguan [Chinese
 Consolidated Benevolent Association] asked him to work as the di
rector of the Public Communication Department. Last Wednesday,
 three Chinese community organizations invited him to talk on China,
 though he is too busy to go all of them. Our country now is in great
 danger. Tennyson often speaks to Western organizations, in spite of
 his busy schedule with school work.49
 Tennyson’s student leadership experience at Nankai prepared him well to be
 a student activist in an American university. Soon he came to know Chinese
 student organizations on other campuses and was often invited to talk about
 the Japanese invasion of China, speaking at a variety of colleges. He once
 also had a long and tough debate with the Japanese general consul in Los
 Angeles at an international conference.50 Sam did not regard Tennyson’s ac
tivities for China in the United States as radical or extreme. He was proud
 that Tennyson could readily participate in these social actions even though
 he grew up in China.
 After he received his B.A. from the University of Southern California
Education as a Family Agenda
 159
 (in January 1933), Tennyson followed exactly the direction Sam had planned
 for him and went to the East Coast. He first attended Columbia University
 in New York for his master’s degree, and then pursued his Ph.D. in Washing
ton, D.C., at Georgetown University. Encouraged by Sam, Tennyson contin
ued to participate in extracurricular activities. When Sam heard that the newly
 elected Franklin Delano Roosevelt would be inaugurated in March 1933, he
 wrote to Tennyson:
 Roosevelt’s presidential inauguration will be held on March 4. There
 will be a parade and it seems very exciting. It is also on a Saturday.
 You should go if you have the time. It is not very easy for overseas
 Chinese students to see such an event. New York is not very far from
 Washington, D.C., and will not cost much money. As your major is
 diplomatic studies, you should not miss the event. I hear you plan
 to visit Chicago and to see the International Trade Exhibition and
 famous museums there. I like the idea very much. Chicago is an im
portant city in midwest America. You should know this city.51
 In another letter, Sam noted that Tennyson had become an officer of a Chi
nese student organization: “I am pleased to hear you are the president of the
 East Coast Chinese Student and Youth Association. Hopefully it will be not
 a tiring job.”52 As an officer of the Chinese student organization, Tennyson
 was able to travel to several other cities on the East Coast and to become
 involved in more China-related social actions. In a letter of 1933, Sam wrote:
 Tennyson gave a speech on China over the radio that was broadcast
 throughout the world. His speech was highly praised by many Ameri
cans. An army academy military teacher spoke highly of his speech.
 I went to the Hu Zhu’s home to listen to the radio speech, but they
 did not know how to locate the international frequency band.53
 In the fall of 1934, Cai Tingkai, a Chinese general, arrived in the United
 States. His Nineteenth Route Army troops had resisted the Japanese attack
 on Shanghai for thirty-four days in January and February, 1932. In contrast
 to appeasing Nationalist leaders, Cai brought honor to the Chinese as an anti
Japanese hero. Moreover, he was a Cantonese. He visited several cities in
 the United States; wherever he went, he was honored with spectacular re
ceptions. As Henry Tsai notes, Cai’s visit was a good barometer by which
 the linkage between the Chinese in America and their motherland could be
 measured.54 When Cai visited Washington, D.C., Tennyson made a speech,
 in both English and Chinese, as a Chinese student representative at the
160
 The Transnational History
 reception. Sam wrote Tennyson that, “When the Jinshan Shibao [Golden
 Mountain Times] carried the news about Cai Tingkai’s visit, it praised your
 speech as the best one at the reception.”55 Sam also described Cai’s visit to
 Los Angeles:
 Cai’s speech in L.A. was improper, as it condemns the Nanjing gov
ernment. His talk attracted several thousand Chinese. Four of my
 workers and I went to hear his talk, too. However, Cai only gave a
 brief account of the Shanghai Battle and then began to attack the
 Nanjing government. Fortunately few Westerners went and there was
 no interpretation. Otherwise he could have harmed the government’s
 reputation.56
 Tennyson shared this perspective with his father and actually advised Cai not
 to openly attack the Nationalist government before an American audience.
 He believed that doing so could hurt the national interests of China. Accord
ing to one letter of Sam’s, Cai carefully considered Tennyson’s advice.57
 As a parent, Sam continued to watch Tennyson’s academic performance
 even when the young man was a graduate student at Georgetown University.
 Sam wrote to Constance in 1935 that her brother got three As and four Bs.58
 In another letter, Sam suggested to Tennyson that he write his dissertation
 on China’s diplomatic history from the Qing Dynasty to the present.59
 In 1938, Tennyson married. His wife, Xisi, graduated from Jiling Uni
versity in Nanjing, one of the most prestigious universities, converted from
 an American missionary school in China, and her father was a Chinese dip
lomat while her mother an American-born Chinese.60 Tennyson’s father-in
law also promised to help him obtain a job in the Chinese foreign ministry.
 The wedding was held in the Chinese embassy in Washington, D.C., and was
 hosted by the Chinese ambassador. While preparing for the marriage, Sam
 wrote to Tennyson that his mother wanted him to stay in the United States
 for awhile. The older couple probably want to see their first grandchild, pref
erably a boy, before Tennyson returned to China. Sam told Tennyson that his
 mother was willing to help take care of the baby.61 Tennyson and his wife
 had a daughter the following year. In 1940, Tennyson got his first job offer,
 as an assistant consul in the General Consulate of the Chinese Nationalist
 government in Nicaragua. Because of his family background, he was assigned
 to be in charge of overseas Chinese affairs. Writing to his father in 1940,
 Tennyson mentioned that as a low-ranking government official, his monthly
 salary was less than 150 U.S. dollars. Such a salary was too meager to raise
Education as a Family Agenda
 161
 a family. But Sam encouraged him to accept the offer: “I know you will be
gin as an assistant consul. It is fine to begin with a low position. You will
 have promotions in the future.”62 After Tennyson married, Sam and his wife
 began to expect a grandson from him, as many other Chinese parents did when
 their children married. They were still influenced by traditional Chinese cul
ture. However, Tennyson’s three children were all daughters.
 Equally to Sam’s disappointment, Tennyson’s diplomatic career was not
 so smooth or promising as he had hoped. While in Nicaragua, Tennyson’s
 wife became ill with amoebic dysentery. She could not find proper care in
 Nicaragua and therefore had to be sent to Costa Rica for proper medical treat
ment. After his wife’s recovery, Tennyson left his position in the Chinese for
eign ministry. He did not inform his parents and other family members until
 he had found another job, at the University of Colorado in Boulder. Then he
 switched between several jobs, including a position with the New York–based
 China Institute in America, where his salary was 250 dollars per month. Sam
 still hoped his son could obtain a good position with the Chinese govern
ment. When Tennyson’s father-in-law was promoted in 1945, while in
 Chongqing (Chungking), the Nationalist government’s wartime capital, Sam
 urged Tennyson to solicit help from his father-in-law in obtaining a new po
sition. In 1946, when the anti-Japanese war was over and the Nationalist gov
ernment began to negotiate with the Communists for a coalition government,
 Sam brought up this issue again:
 The overseas Chinese have great hopes in the Political Consultation
 Conference after the war. Many of them, including our family mem
bers, are waiting to go back. When the situation becomes stable, you
 should go back and serve our own country. We should also raise
 money for rebuilding Nankai School, and also the school in our home
 village.63
 In other letters, Sam mentioned that a distant relative planned to open a ciga
rette factory in China, and that his third brother Elbert wished to go back to
 carry on his medical practice, as well. He also observed that many Chinese
 American veterans could not find proper jobs in America.64 Under this en
couragement, Tennyson too was thinking about going back to China. Writ
ing from New York, he informed Sam:
 Both Nankai and Beijing University were willing to offer me a fac
ulty position. But the economic situation in China is really awful.
 Many universities were damaged in the war, including Nankai. In
162
 The Transnational History
 regard to faculty positions, it is best to get a teaching position in
 Beijing University. But it is so close to the battlefields during the
 civil war.65
 Obviously, this was the moment when the People’s Liberation Army under
 Mao Zedong (Mao Tse-tung) and his Communist Party were about to take
 over Beijing. Tennyson was never able to return to China. His pursuit of a
 promising diplomatic career in China through a transnational education did
 not come through, because of the political changes in that country. But
 Tennyson did become a full professor at Georgetown University, in the de
partment of international relations. Following this, he was a professor of Asian
 studies at Saint Petersburg University in Tampa, Florida, until his retirement.
 Growing up in a merchant immigrant family, he was fortunate enough to avail
 himself of opportunities on both sides of the Pacific.
 Through the Chang family history, we see how the value of education
 was deeply rooted in an average Chinese family. Children’s education, as an
 important family agenda, was viewed by parents as their obligation, and they
 closely monitored and involved themselves in their children’s education. The
 Chang’s example tells us how Chinese family culture in general expects each
 younger generation’s success to be accomplished through education and ca
reer merit rather than to be based on the wealth of ancestors. On the other
 hand, young people were supposed to climb the social ladder through their
 own educational achievement and to live up to their parents’ expectations.
 As good schools and colleges were not necessarily located in the home re
gion, educational pursuit often sent the children away from home, allowing
 them to explore new lifestyles in metropolitan cities or even overseas. In seek
ing education, the younger generation embarked on a path to maturity and
 independence and were exposed to new cultures and social environments.
 Letters between Sam and his children tell us how national and international
 events impacted identity formation of Chinese youth, and how letter writing
 functioned as an important communication channel in Chinese family culture.
