CHAPTER 3
 45
 Herbal Medicine as a
 Transplanted Culture
 h
 When Yitang became a partner of the
 Dun Sow Hong Company and began his promising career as an herbalist in
 Los Angeles, the market in Chinese herbal medicine was thriving. Yitang prac
ticed herbal medicine for almost fifty years. This profession allowed him to
 claim membership in the immigrant merchant class, gave him the right to
 sponsor other family members to America, and enabled him to see all of his
 children and most of his grandchildren through college. The herbal business
 played a key role in the immigration history of the Chang family. As men
tioned in the previous chapter, Yitang successfully brought over his third son
 Elbert and two other relatives. With profits from his herbal business, Yitang
 invested in a farm and helped his eldest son Sam establish merchant status
 so that Sam could bring over his wife, daughter, and two children of Yitang’s
 second son. Although the monetary value of the Chang family farms was
 higher than that of the herbal store, Sam claimed he was an herbalist, rather
 than a farmer, in his immigration testimony, since farming often involved
 manual work and thus the INS was more likely to grant merchant status to
 herbalists than to farmers. The special nature of the herbal business, as well as
 the privilege provided by its merchant status, gives it a unique interest among
 stories of family life and success in the early Chinese American community.
 Yitang’s herbalist career represents a tale of personal success while re
vealing details of an important occupation in Chinese American history. Al
though little has been written about them, Chinese herbalists were a significant
 part of American medical history during this period. They provided an al
most indispensable medical service to both the Chinese and the non-Chinese
 communities in California from the mid-nineteenth century to the first half
 of the twentieth century. The history of herbal medicine shows how an ethnic
 culture gained foothold in American society. Early Chinese immigrants in the
 45
46
 The Transnational History
 second half of the nineteenth century possessed desirable labor and profes
sional skills when they worked in mining, agriculture, manufacturing, trade,
 business, and railroad construction; however, when recessions occurred, rac
ist social movements quickly drove them into ethnic ghettos. They were then
 forced to engage in whatever menial and service occupations white people
 were unwilling to pursue; as a result, Chinese typically found themselves
 working as laundrymen or cooks. Ironing and cooking became trademarks
 of their ethnicity even though many Chinese picked up these skills only af
ter arriving in America.
 Herbal medicine, however, was a true ethnic skill. A journal article of
 1899 claimed the herbalist as “the only professional man who has invaded
 our shores from the Flowery Kingdom.”1 In spite of finding themselves in a
 society hostile to their ethnicity, many Chinese herbalists still managed to
 become successful petty capitalists through their thriving businesses. Herbal
 medicine is one of the rare instances in which the Chinese made their living
 with a true ethnic skill for a prolonged period.
 The history of Chinese herbal medicine in America is also of interest
 because most of the clients of the herbalists were Caucasians. Herbal medi
cine clearly demonstrates a point of intersection between mainstream America
 and Asian culture, and shows how Caucasian patients adapted themselves to
 an Asian therapy.
 Chinese herbal stores began to appear as soon as the Chinese arrived
 in the United States. Medical knowledge was popular in Chinese society, as
 medicine had long been considered a “benevolent art,” and medical skill was
 important for the proper fulfillment of filial duties in Chinese family cul
ture. Many literate Chinese immigrants probably possessed some medical
 knowledge and knew how to cure minor disease or injury with herbal medi
cine.2 In 1964, the Son Loy Company of San Francisco donated to the Chi
nese Historical Society of America three sub-basements’ worth of personal
 items belonging to Chinese pioneers who had left them with the store for
 safekeeping at the turn of the century. Of the many boxes and trunks opened
 for examination, almost all contained some Chinese herbs or medicines.3
 Early Seattle Chinese immigrants benefited collectively from an herbal recipe
 book that contained the best personal recipes of the members of the Chinese
 community. Although the book originally belonged to the Wah-Chong Com
pany, founded in 1868, it was community property and served everyone when
 no professional herbalists were available.4 Both of these examples demon
strate the popularity of herbal medical knowledge among Chinese immigrants.
 According to Paul Buell and Christopher Muench, herbal doctors were
Herbal Medicine
 47
 among the early Chinese immigrants who arrived in the 1840s and
 1850s.5 Among the eighty-eight San Francisco Chinese businesses listed in
 a business directory in 1856, fifteen were pharmacies and five were herbal
 doctors. This number was second only to that of grocery stores (thirty-eight).6
 Photos of Chinatown in San Francisco before the 1906 earthquake included
 pictures of herbal business.7 Clearly, herbal medical practice was an impor
tant part of early Chinese immigrant life.
 Historian Liu Pei-Chi (Boji) wrote that every Chinatown had at least one
 herbalist shop in the late nineteenth century, and many had three to four
 shops.8 Fiddletown of Amador County, California, still preserves the Chew Kee
 Herbal Shop as a historic site. This store was established by herbalist Fund Jong
 Yee in 1851 and operated for fifty-three years. During the Gold Rush, approxi
mately five thousand to ten thousand Chinese miners lived in Fiddletown.9
 The herbal trade was transnational by nature, and a highly specialized
 business, requiring the manufacture of medicine from hundreds or even thou
sands of indigenous herbs gathered on the mountains and in the valleys of
 China. To facilitate passage of Chinese medicines through U.S. customs, the
 San Francisco Chinese Chamber of Commerce published a booklet of forms
 and labels for twenty-three basic types of herbs. The book was entitled Liang
 Yao Zhao Zhi, which roughly translates as “Food and Drug Labels.”10 As early
 as 1878, there were eighteen wholesale herb companies in San Francisco’s
 Chinatown, which imported herbs from China and distributed them to Chi
nese herbalists throughout the United States.11
 Herbal practice also developed in states other than California. An ar
ticle, “Chinese Drug Stores in America,” in the American Journal of Phar
macy of December 1887 noted that there were at least four herbal shops in
 Philadelphia and: “day and night their clerks are busy, weighing and pound
ing and tying up packages for the relief of their suffering countrymen.”12
 This article provides a fairly detailed description of how herbal medicine op
erated in America, and appears based on careful observation of Chinese herb
alists in the metropolitan cities of the East Coast. Overland Monthly, a San
 Francisco–based journal, carried an article in 1869 that noted: “The Chinese,
 wherever they go, are followed up pretty closely by men professing to be
 skilled in the healing art.” It adds, “Judging from the number of their apoth
ecary stores, one would suppose that the Chinese were large consumers of
 medicines.”13 In more recent scholarship, Jeffrey Harlow and Christine
 Richardson have researched Chinese herbalists in Oregon, and Paul Buell and
 Christopher Muench have written about herbalists in Seattle and Idaho.14
 Clearly, herbalists were always part of the Chinese immigrant community.
48
 The Transnational History
 The service provided by herbalists was a source of cultural comfort to
 the early Chinese immigrants. Patients could communicate easily with the
 physicians about their symptoms; besides, drinking herbal tea was a familiar
 treatment used by the Chinese for several thousands of years. According to
 Chinese historian Liu Pei Chi, early Chinese immigrants believed in Chinese
 traditional medicine far more than in Western medicine—hence the rise of
 herbal shops and practice.15 Chinese immigrants usually tried herbal medi
cine first, unless the sickness required surgery. However, Western medicine
 was not totally foreign to the Chinese, especially to those from the Guangzhou
 area. There, missionary hospitals had begun to appear during the 1840s. By
 1905, there were 166 Western hospitals and 241 clinics in China. Meanwhile,
 China established a number of Western medical colleges.16 In his book
 A Guide to the City and Suburbs of Canton, the early missionary doctor
 John Kerr recorded many medical institutions affiliated with Western
 missionaries.17
 It should be noted that herbal medicine was probably the only treat
ment available to the early Chinese immigrants in America. These immigrants
 were denied access to public medical facilities and treatment, while simulta
neously accused of harboring hidden threats to American health. Public health
 issues were often the most powerful arguments brought forward to exclude
 the Chinese during anti-Chinese campaigns. Racist Caucasian doctors blamed
 the Chinese for “ignoring all laws of hygiene and sanitation,” and “thereby
 endangering the welfare of the state and of the nation.”18 Chinese passen
gers were regularly subject to medical examination upon entry into this coun
try; Chinatown was frequently inspected for disease and placed under
 quarantine. These tactics were intimidating and humiliating to the Chinese
 community.19 Several times, Sam Chang expressed his resentment over this
 harassment. In 1922, he wrote:
 Recently the new quarantine officers at the customs were even stricter
 than before. Many Chinese passengers were denied entry. In the past,
 people sometimes could use bribery to get in, but not anymore. Anti
Chinese movements are also rampant in Mexico and Canada. In this
 chaotic world, Chinese belong to a weak nation and cannot go any
where.20
 In 1870, although San Francisco’s Chinese population constituted five per
 cent of the total city population, only a token number were admitted into the
 health facilities operated by the city and county.21 The Chinese patients were
 usually “shunted off to a smallpox or pest hospital or to a special building,
Herbal Medicine
 49
 originally operated exclusively for the Chinese and later designed as the Laza
retto or Lepers’ Quarters.”22 Under these circumstances, the Chinese com
munity was compelled to take action on its own.
 By the late nineteenth century, San Francisco’s Chinatown had become
 the largest Chinese community in America. In order to meet the needs of their
 own people, each clan or district organization set up a clinic for its own aged
 and ailing members.23 The Chinese Six Companies also had planned to es
tablish a general hospital in Chinatown as had the French and German com
munities. But the city authorities repeatedly rejected and delayed the plan.
 Finally the Chinese Six Companies managed to establish a Tung Wah Dis
pensary, which opened in 1900 at 828 Sacramento Street.24 The dispensary
 hired both Western physicians and Chinese herbalists. After a legal battle,
 Chinese herbalists were allowed to treat some diseases.
 While the Six Companies were fighting hard to set up a general hospi
tal for the community, individual herbalists opened their own practices to serve
 the needs of Chinese patients. As Chinese communities expanded, more and
 more professional herbal doctors, herbal stores, and dispensaries appeared.
 Most of the practitioners were professionally trained herbalists, although some
 individuals had obtained herbal knowledge informally. The professionals were
 often descendants from a long line of herbal practitioners or had studied un
der master herbal scholars in China. In Yitang’s case, herbal medical knowl
edge was a family tradition. He had already practiced herbal medicine in
 Guangzhou before his arrival in America. His son Sam Chang had also spent
 a few years of study under Guan Chengbi, a famous herbalist in Guangzhou
 in the late nineteenth century, as part of his education.
 Crossing Ethnic Lines: From Chinese to Caucasian Clientele
 After opening practices in the Chinese community, Chinese herbalists
 started to attract Caucasian clients as well. Inadequate Western medical fa
cilities, and the inability of Western medicine to effectively treat some dis
eases, as well as a lack of standardization of medical practice, were the main
 reasons for the prosperity of herbal businesses among both Chinese and non
Chinese communities. All kinds of alternative medical practices existed in
 the nineteenth century, and Chinese herbalists were not the only practitio
ners of unorthodox medicine. As William G. Rothstein has pointed out, “Be
fore the twentieth century, very few curative or ameliorative therapies existed,
 and patients had little reason to prefer physicians’ services to other treatments.
 Many patients used traditional medications.”25 Beginning in the early twentieth
50
 The Transnational History
 century, however, unorthodox medical practices performed mainly by Cau
casians, such as chiropractic or botanical healing, gradually achieved legal
 status, while the Chinese herbalists were never granted licenses to conduct
 medical diagnosis. Since a medical practice required licensing, most herbal
 physicians promoted their business as selling herbs, although in fact they of
fered medical diagnosis and therapy.
 Ironically, herbal medicine is not a folk practice. In China, the Chi
nese refer to Chinese traditional medicine as “zhongyi” (Chinese medicine)
 and medical practice developed in Europe as “xiyi” (Western medicine). While
 not the world’s earliest recorded medical system, Chinese medicine is “the
 oldest continuous surviving [medical] tradition, rivaled only by Ayurvedic
 medicine in India. . . . The earliest surviving pharmacopoeia, the Pen-ts’ao
 ching attributed to Shen-nung, was probably compiled in the first century
 B.C.”26 Through centuries of empirical experiments, Chinese medicine de
veloped into a systematic body of medical knowledge, with complex theo
ries and with specializations such as pharmacology, pulsology, acupuncture,
 and moxibustion. Diagnostic methods include visual observation, inquiry into
 case history, auditing symptoms, and the taking of the patient’s pulse, or
 pulsology.27 According to Buell and Muench, although there were all kinds
 of health practitioners in the western United States and Canada, “the tradi
tional Chinese physicians were a vital part of the health care system for all
 of the frontier community. Chinese and non-Chinese alike employed their ser
vices, often preferring the Chinese medical approach to that of their Western
 doctors.”28
 It was usually the more established and aggressive Chinese herbal physi
cians who marketed their profession to Caucasian patients. An article, “Chi
nese Physicians in California,” in Lippincott’s Magazine in 1899 noted that
 mediocre herbalists did not attempt “to ply their vocation among the whites,
 but wisely confine their ‘practice’ to their own people.”29 As early as 1858,
 the herbal physician Hu Junxiao, also known as Wo Tsun Yuen, of San
 Francisco’s Chinatown used English-language signs in his shop to attract Cau
casian patients. According to Liu Pei Chi, the most famous herbalist at that
 time was Li Pu-tai (Li Potai) from Shunde County, Guangdong Province, who
 arrived in California during the late Gold Rush period. Li opened an herbal
 office in San Francisco on Washington Street, and had patients coming all
 the way from the East Coast. His office schedule was always booked. The
 same 1899 article from Lippinocott’s Magazine claimed that Li was “the first
 doctor to leave his countrymen and to go boldly among the whites, advocat
ing his system of medicine and establishing a lucrative practice among Cau
Herbal Medicine
 51
 casians.” The article also noted that Li’s son and nephew were Chinese phy
sicians in Los Angeles who spoke English readily and whose practice was
 exclusively among English-speaking people.30
 In fact, many herbalists, like Li, had more Caucasian than Chinese pa
tients. Barlow’s book noted how herbalist Ing Hay began to increasingly ca
ter to Caucasian clients as the Chinese population declined in East Oregon
 around 1900–10.31 In 1933, herbalist Fong Wan wrote, in the foreword of
 his book Herbal Lore:
 The demand of Americans for Chinese herbs has for several years
 been steadily on the increase. Consequently, whereas some forty
 years ago the sale of Chinese herbs in the United States was con
fined almost wholly to the Chinese population, at the time of this
 writing, the American patrons far outnumber the Chinese.32
 The growth of Caucasian patients shows the effectiveness of herbal medi
cine and its increasing popularity in American society.
 In a book on Chinese herbalists in Oregon, Jeffrey Barlow and Chris
tine Richardson noted that herbal medicine was far more successful in treat
ing the ills and injuries of the frontier region than were the ministrations of
 conventional physicians at the turn of the twentieth century. Although West
ern medicine was helpless before the winter flu, herbal medicine kept the
 Chinese highway builders from becoming bedridden and enabled them to keep
 up with their demanding work schedule. Moreover, none of the Caucasian
 patients of the Chinese herbalist in John Day died during the 1915 and 1919
 flu epidemics, which caused thousands of deaths in nearby Portland. Herbal
 medicine also cured patients suffering from meningitis, lumbago, mumps,
 colds, stomach ailments, hemorrhaging, and influenza.33 In fact, Chinese
 herbal medicine is based on time-tested theories and has a long tradition of
 dealing with epidemics, which is probably why it was so effective a therapy
 for flu patients in Oregon.
 Herbal medicine was not totally foreign to Caucasian Americans. As a
 social movement to oppose orthodox medicine, botanical healing, with its
 prominent leader Samuel Thomson, was quite popular in the early nineteenth
 century. But medical practice became more and more standardized in the sec
ond half of the nineteenth century, as Western medical schools, journals, and
 organizations were gradually established.34 Traditional practitioners then came
 under increasing pressure from those practicing orthodox medicine. It is all
 the more remarkable that, in spite of this, Chinese herbal medicinal practice
 continued to grow, especially when one considers the racism toward the
52
 The Transnational History
 Chinese at the time. It could have been quite a challenge for a Caucasian to
 trust, and take herbal teas, from a Chinese person. Herbalist Tan Fu-yuan
 claimed in his book that, “as a rule, Caucasians have been unwilling to con
sult us until they had tried every other form of medical treatment within their
 reach. Therefore, it may be said that all of the cures which we have made
 have been cases given up by other doctors.”35
 The effectiveness of his therapy helped an herbalist to win over not only
 Caucasian clients but also their friendship. Yitang invited some loyal clients
 to testify as witnesses in his immigration cases. The fact that they were white
 was of great help. Yitang’s wife Nellie and son Arthur recalled, in their inter
views, detailed information on how Yitang successfully treated some Cauca
sian patients.36 Nellie remembered several difficult cases Yitang had handled.
 In one, a Caucasian man working for the Union Pacific Railroad had a boil
 in his chest. After four operations by Western physicians, his incisions from
 these operations on the boil still would not heal, but after seeing Yitang, at
 the recommendation of a friend, he was cured in two months. The Chang fam
ily also remembered “a coughing girl,” the only daughter of a Caucasian
 woman: although several Western physicians had diagnosed her as having an
 incurable cough, the coughing girl became “a chubby girl” after taking
 Yitang’s herbal tea. In the early 1930s, stomach ailments were common in
 California. Booklets by Chinese herbalists contained a number of testimo
nies from patients with stomach trouble. Many patients of Yitang also suf
fered from this problem. A stage manager at the Orpheum Theater and his
 wife came in together for treatment. The wife had such a badly upset stom
ach that she could not fall asleep and would pace around all night. After see
ing Yitang several times, both were cured. Such patients were so impressed
 byYitang’s therapy that they became family friends. They brought their fami
lies to visit Yitang, and some were invited to attend Yitang’s wedding party.
 Many of them began to take Chinese herbal teas for all their colds and
 coughs.37 Writings by herbalists Tan Fu-yuan, Tom Leung, and Fong Wan
 also contain statements by their patients, who claimed that they received suc
cessful treatment when Western doctors could not cure their illnesses.
 It is worthwhile to point out that Chinese herbalists treated Caucasians
 of both sexes. In an advertisement in the Los Angeles Times of 9 August 1887,
 an herbalist put “diseases peculiar to women” as one of his specialties. In
 another commercial, an herbalist listed the name of a supposedly well-known
 local Caucasian lady as one of his references.38 In his book Herbal Lore,
 Fong Wan included a brief testimony by a Caucasian woman who explained
 how she got rid of several breast lumps after taking Fong’s herbal medicine.39
Herbal Medicine
 53
 In both Tan Fu Yuan and Tom Leung’s books, there are sections on women’s
 diseases. Garding Lui’s book offered a theoretical explanation for women’s
 health problems, in common language. The herbalist Ah-Fong of Idaho
 claimed women’s diseases—including venereal diseases, infertility, and amen
orrhea—as one of his specialties. Yitang took women patients, as well. That
 Chinese herbalists highlighted the treatment of women’s diseases in their com
mercial promotions reflects that gynecology and obstetrics were important
 specializations in Chinese herbal medicine. Publication of medical texts, in
cluding herbal prescriptions on women’s diseases, proliferated during the Qing
 period.40 Many herbalists probably had read or possessed such prescriptions
 and could offer therapy to American women, while Western doctors felt help
less to treat certain symptoms.
 In addition to the effectiveness of herbal medicine, there are several
 explanations for why Caucasian female patients went to see Chinese herbal
ists. One can certainly see the attraction for women of the noninvasive ex
amination, in the form of feeling the pulse or observing the tongue. Herbalists
 usually did not ask a woman patient to undress in order to check their body.
 Delivering a baby was usually done by a female midwife rather than by a
 male herbalist, in Chinese society. The objective and nonmoralistic approach
 of the herbalists toward sexual matters, along with the social distance between
 the Chinese and the Caucasian community, would be other key reasons for
 Caucasian women’s patronage. The unencumbered sex education and health
 advice to women in Garding Lui’s book, and the sketch of the female body
 (reprinted from an ancient Chinese medical encyclopedia) included in Fong’s
 book, clearly demonstrate both these points, as well as the professional atti
tude of the herbalists toward their female patients.41 Health care provided by
 Chinese herbalists to white women illustrates a meaningful breakthrough of
 Chinese culture into American society. Chinese medicine was accepted, as
 an ethnic therapy, by both Caucasian male and female patients, during a period
 when Chinese males, like African Americans males, were often viewed as
 sexually interested in white women and thus threatening to white racial purity.
 Herbal medicine represented a genuine aspect of Chinese culture to ordinary
 Americans, a counterbalance to the stereotyped images of Fu Manchu villains
 from Hollywood movies, or of Chinatown as an exotic tourist destination.
 Yitang and Other Herbalists in Southern California
 As family, clan, and friends were the basis of social networks for Chi
nese immigrant communities, it is not surprising that some famous herbalists
54
 The Transnational History
 were related. Tan Fu-yuan was Li Pu-tai’s nephew, and became his assistant
 in 1891. After Tan established himself in Northern California, he moved to
 Southern California with Li’s son and opened an office in Redlands in 1893.
 Tan attracted many patrons and aroused jealousy from Western doctors, who
 began to attack his methods, and Chinese traditional medicine in general, as
 pseudoscience, in the Redlands Citrograph, the local newspaper. But the
 Leader, a rival local newspaper, published testimonials from Tan’s patients
 warmly acknowledging his skill as a physician. Ironically, this pen war in
creased Tan’s reputation and brought him more clients. In 1896, Tan opened
 another office, called Foo and Wing Herbal Company, in a large Victorian
 house at 903 S. Olive Street in Los Angeles.42 He also had offices in Oak
land and Boston. In 1899, Tan Fu-yuan sent for his cousin Tom Leung to be
 his assistant. Leung was a smart young man. In a few years, he quickly learned
 how to prescribe and dispense herbs, and was promoted from a cashier to
 vice president of the company. In 1914, Leung built a twenty-thousand dol
lar residence and office at 1619 W. Pico Street, and in 1918 he set up an
other office, at 711 South Main Street.43
 It is difficult to determine the precise number of Chinese herbalists dur
ing this period. According to Garding Lui’s 1948 estimate, there were more
 120 herbalists in California by then, and one third were in Los Angeles.44
 Lui’s estimate, while not necessarily accurate, indicated a prosperous herbal
 market in Southern California. Although it is hardly possible to verify Lui’s
 estimate, the 1913 International Chinese Business Directory of the World
 listed twenty-eight Chinese herbal physicians in Los Angeles City.45 This can
not be the complete number, as, for various reasons, many herbal physicians
 were not listed. In 1933, Chinese herbalists in Southern California had a pro
fessional conference in Los Angeles; although there was no written record,
 the photo of the conference (see the illustrations section of this book) included
 thirty-five herbalists of Southern California.
 Yitang Chung’s name was missing in the 1913 directory. A probable
 reason was that he was very careful about publicizing himself, to avoid ha
rassment from Western medical organizations; however, he did advertise his
 herbal business through flyers and local newspapers. Meanwhile, the Din Au
 Tong store mentioned on the list is located at the same street address as Dun
 Sow Tong, in which Yitang was a partner in the 1900s; by 1913, the business
 may have been purchased by another herbalist and changed to a new name.
 While twenty-eight may not be the definitive count, there were at least sev
eral dozen Chinese herbalists in the Los Angeles area.
 Using the 1913 International Business Directory, and assuming that at
Herbal Medicine
 55
 TABLE 1 The 1913 Directory
 Business
 Address
 Chinese Medical Co.
 Bow Sui Tong, Drugs
 Chinese Herbal Co.
 Chinese Tea and Herbal Co.
 Dai Sang Tong, Drugs
 Din Au Tong, Drugs
 Tom She Bin and Sons, Physicians
 Wong Company Sanitarium
 Fong Sue Nom, Physician
 Foo and Wing Herbal Company, Medicines
   (having moved from its old location, 929 S. Broadway)
 Gee Ning Tong, Drugs
 H. T. Chan, Physician
 Hong Wo Tong, Drugs
 Kam Brothers and Co. Physicians
 Lum Wing Yue, Chinese Tea and Herbal Co.
 Mon Yick Tong, Drugs
 Mon Yuen Tong, Drugs
 Po Sang, Drugs
 Po Sow Tong, Drugs
 Quan Tong, Herbal Company
 Suey Gee Tong and Co., Drugs
 Sun Kam Lee and Co., Teas
 Wah Young Herbal Company, Drugs
 Wing On Tong, Drugs
 Yee Sing and Co., Drugs
 Yick Yuen Tong, Drugs
 Young Woo Tong, Drugs
 955 S. Hill St.
 319 S. Marchessault St.
 433 S. Hill St.
 1049 S. Main St.
 323 Marchessault St.
 306 Marchessault St.
 145–47 W. 22nd St.
 713 Main St.
 208 Marchessault St.
 903 S. Olive St.
 514 Los Angeles St.
 1045 S. Broadway
 212 Ferguson Alley
 603 S Olive St.
 819 S. Hill St.
 304 Marchessault St.
 319 Apablasa St.
 320 Marchessault St.
 319 Marchessault St.
 716 S. Hill St.
 757 N. Alameda St.
 418 W. 7th.
 936 S Broadway
 302 Marchessault St.
 322 Marchessault St.
 759 N. Alameda St.
 315 Apablasa St.
 Source: International Chinese Business Directory of the World, 1413.
 that time most Chinese people resided mainly on the Los Angeles streets of
 Marchessault, Ferguson, Alameda, and Apablasa, we find that about half of
 the Chinese herbal offices were located in Caucasian communities.46 A list
 of actual companies and their addresses is given in Table 1. Like Chinese
 laundries and other small Chinese businesses, these offices were situated one
 block or so apart. This cluster, on a few streets close to downtown, could make
 the city of Los Angeles an herbal medical hub attractive to patients across
 Southern California. For example, some of Yitang’s patients came from Ana
heim in Orange County. Geographic concentration could cause competition
 but was probably not a major concern to herbalists, as each physician might
 have his own formulas, passed on from one generation to the next within the
56
 The Transnational History
 family. According to Ralph C. Croizier, “despite the large medical literature,
 much of Chinese medical knowledge was the private possession of the indi
vidual practitioner, who might transmit it to his son or disciple but would
 certainly not share it with his professional rivals.”47
 U.S. Census data indicate that the Chinese population in Los Angeles
 City from 1890 to 1920 was only around two thousand, dispersed in several
 neighborhoods rather than concentrated in Chinatown.48 One can infer that,
 given the small size of the Chinese community, the large number of herbal
 physicians on the list strongly indicates that herbalists catered to the needs
 of both Chinese and Caucasian communities and many herbalists had more
 Caucasian than Chinese patients. According to historian Carey McWilliams:
 Much of the early medicine of the region was a combination of folk
healing, quackery, and superstition. Chinese herbal doctors still did
 a lively business when I first arrived in Los Angeles in 1922. . . . As
 late as 1870, Southern California had only one doctor in attendance
 at the annual meeting of the State Medical Society, and a local soci
ety was not formed until 1888. The vacuum created in the medical
 art was filled by Chinese herbal doctors, faith-healers, quacks and a
 miscellaneous assortment of practitioners.49
 Here, McWilliams noted not only the medical market for Chinese herbalists,
 but also the existence of other nonorthodox practitioners. It is interesting to
 note that McWilliams himself was probably a patient of the highly regarded
 Yitang. The children of Yitang and Sam remembered McWilliams as an ac
quaintance of the family.50
 Lack of Western medical facilities and doctors was likely the primary
 reason for the rise of Chinese herbal medicine among whites in Southern Califor
nia. When Yitang became a partner in Dun Sow Hong Company (Zan Shou
 Tang), located at 306 Marchessault Street in Chinatown, he probably treated
 more Chinese than Caucasian patients. He soon opened his Chinese-American
 Herbal Corporation, at 917 South Hill Street outside Chinatown, so that he
 could attract more Caucasian patients. Since herbal medicine was part of his
 family tradition and he had already practiced it in China, he was confident
 of his skill and naturally wanted to expand his clientele base into the Cauca
sian community. His son Arthur recalled that Yitang “had more Caucasian
 customers than Chinese.”51 His wife Nellie also said that, in the first few
 years, her husband’s patients were Chinese and later most were white: “Hardly
 any Chinese came.”52 As mentioned, Yitang’s contemporaries, the herbalists
 Tan Fu-yuan, Tom Leung, and the son of Li Pu-tai, all had more Caucasian
Herbal Medicine
 57
 clients than Chinese. The herbal medicine business was also unique among
 Chinese businesses in that many practitioners had white partners. In Yitang’s
 Chinese-American Herbal Company, four of eight partners were Caucasian.53
 During Yitang’s career, the Chang family moved several times but al
ways lived outside Chinatown. He once established his herbal office in a shop
ping center on Ninth Street. Although there were Chinese and Japanese
 produce distributors, and a number of middle-class Chinese families, located
 there, the area was essentially a white neighborhood. Chinatown in Los An
geles was a community that survived without a large Chinese labor force,
 and it had a greater social acceptance by mainstream society and more fre
quent interactions with the non-Chinese community than had most
 Chinatowns of the period.54 Different from other Chinese populations in the
 United States at that time, many Chinese in Los Angeles chose to live out
side Chinatown. The third largest Los Angeles produce market, at Ninth and
 San Pedro Streets was mainly owned by Chinese and Japanese farmers and
 agribusinessmen; many Chinese merchants’ offices and herbal shops in the
 area served both Chinese and Caucasian clients. William Mason noted that
 throughout the 1920s the Chinese were spreading from the old Chinatown
 into other parts of the city. The Chinese with families preferred to live in
 residential districts; only old single men still clung to the old Chinatown.55
 As an experienced herbalist, Yitang had a variety of substitute formu
lae when a particular substance was not available. In addition, he established
 a working relationship with other Chinese herbal doctors in Chinatown in
 order to have a supplementary supply of herbs. Because of the long tradition
 of herbal medicine in China, trade in medicinal herbs was a highly special
ized field, and was usually operated by people with herbal knowledge. As
 herbal medicine was also popular in other Asian countries, a few Japanese
 merchants also engaged in the herbal import business. Imports, however, did
 not always arrive in time.
 Profits, Partners, and Promotion
 Family documents do not have a record of how much Yitang made each
 month or year, though we can find some income figures from the immigra
tion files on the Chang family. In an interview, Yitang stated that he spent
 two thousand dollars in 1906 to acquire the stocks of the Chinese-American
 Herbal Cooperation from a man called Mock Ku Yen, and that, under Yitang’s
 own operation, the business revenue was about eight thousand to nine thou
sand dollars, with 20 percent profit, in 1910. He paid himself seventy-five
58
 The Transnational History
 dollars a month as salary and usually paid an assistant fifty dollars per month.
 In addition, he could have a dividend profit of three to four hundred dollars
 for every thousand dollars he had invested in the business.56 Although he
 was not so rich as Li Pu-tai, Yitang was, as previously noted, wealthy enough
 to provide his family with a comfortable life and to see all his children through
 college. When business was good, appointments in his office were always
 full. Patients came from other towns—or even from other states, as the trans
continental railroad had been completed.
 Yitang did not charge for a diagnosis, as he was fully aware that he
 was not a licensed doctor. He made his profit out of selling herbs. Usually
 he could provide one to two week’s prescription for a patient. A week’s pre
scription was about eight to ten dollars.57 This was probably the standard
 charge by most herbalists during that period, other than to treat a symptom
 that required rare and expensive herbs. According to Herbal Lore, Fong Wan
 in Oakland charged the same price. Tom Leung, Yitang Chang’s contempo
rary herbal physician and close friend, also charged ten dollars per week.58
 Although not every herbalist became wealthy in America, herbal medi
cine was essentially a profitable business. Many herbal physicians lived a
 much wealthier life than did the average Chinese. Li Pu-tai was one of the
 wealthiest Chinese in San Francisco, with a yearly income of seventy-five
 thousand dollars. His office hours were often completely booked up, and many
 patients came from other cities or even other states. With his profits, he even
 built his own joss house, where he prayed for blessings from the god of wealth
 in Chinese culture. Li was also known as a notorious gambler and sometimes
 bet one thousand dollars in a game.59 Fong Wan was a wealthy herbalist in
 the 1930s. His residence office on Tenth Street in Oakland was a big man
sion with fancy furniture and ornaments. It was so glamorous that it attracted
 hundreds of visitors who just wanted a look at his house. One of his atten
dants’ sole jobs was to take visitors on tours of the house. Tom Foo Yuen
 (Tan Fu-yuan), Tom Leung, Tan Fei-xuan, and Yitang Chang of Los Ange
les, and Su Shao-nan of Denver were only a few of the famous Chinese herb
alists of the time; each often had more than one office, and all built residential
 offices spacious even by contemporary California standards.
 Some successful herbalists may have had the largest clientele, Chinese
 and non-Chinese, among all medical practitioners in the region at that time.
 Commenting on Tan Fu-yuan’s company, the 1899 article in Lippincott’s
 Magazine claimed that, with the possible exception of one or two well
advertised doctors, Tan had more patrons than any of the 350 physicians in
 Los Angeles. As poor people could not afford the high medical charges de
Herbal Medicine
 59
 manded by the herbalists, many patients were the well-to-do and their fami
lies—women, businessmen, lawyers, journalists, even physicians.60
 The economic success of these herbalists reflected a pattern of medi
cal practice different from that in China. For example, pharmacist and
 pulsologist were often separate occupations in traditional China. The most
 prestigious doctors in China were scholar-physicians who only offered their
 services in royal courts or practiced their profession as a benevolent skill
 among families and friends. Other practitioners made diagnoses, wrote pre
scriptions, and charged a therapy fee. In America, however, an herbalist was,
 in the first place, a merchant. Although some herbal stores only sold herbals
 according to prescriptions, most herbalists ran their own stores, wrote the pre
scriptions, and sold herbal medicine all at the same time. Pulse diagnoses
 were usually free, because Chinese herbalists understood that they were not
 allowed to practice as doctors. The herbalists were engaged in every aspect
 of the trade from building commercial networks through the importation of
 herbs to advertising their professions. In targeting Caucasian clients, some
 herbalists actively used commercial advertising, publicizing their busines in
 local newspapers. According to Ray Lou, commercial advertisements for Chi
nese physicians began to appear in Los Angeles local newspapers in the early
 1870s; beginning in the 1880s, some included sketches of themselves mea
suring the pulse of Caucasian patients. Some advertisements ran as large as
 a half-page. It is certain that the herbalists also treated Mexican patients, since
 some of these ads were printed in Spanish.61 Although Yitang did not publi
cize himself as a physician, his herbal business did advertise in local news
papers under the company’s or his Caucasian partner’s name. During his short
 and unsuccessful herbalist career in Salt Lake City in late 1910, Sam Chang
 advertised in almost every local newspaper. Among Sam’s collection of family
 papers, there are advertisements in Japanese and Greek. At the turn of the
 century, Los Angeles had a fairly large Japanese community; in Salt Lake
 City, there was a Greek community of considerable size.62
 For commercial reasons and to defend themselves against racial ste
reotypes, the herbalists published books and pamphlets and distributed all
 kinds of flyers. Tom Foo Yuen, a well-known herbalist in Los Angeles, pub
lished a book in 1897, The Science of Oriental Medicine, Its Principles and
 Methods.63 His former partner and later competitor Tom Leung published a
 booklet called Chinese Herbal Science in 1928.64 In Northern California,
 Fong Wan of Oakland published his Herbal Lore in 1933.65 And Lui Garding,
 another Los Angeles herbalist, published Secrets of Chinese Physicians in
 1943.66 In plain and straightforward English, these books explained the
60
 The Transnational History
 history, theory, and practice of Chinese herbal medicine. Leung’s book even
 advocated establishing a college of herbal medicine. These books contained
 endorsements, support, and praise from Caucasian patients. More than com
mercial promotions, the publications were intended as rebuttals of racist criti
cism. Sensational newspaper writers of the nineteenth century often presented
 Chinese herbal medicine as relying on superstitious beliefs and involving
 sharks’ fins, spider’s eggs, dried toads, or dragon bones. The herbalists’ printed
 materials reflect their resilient efforts to promote Chinese herbal medicine
 to American society as legitimate.
 Working with Caucasian partners, along with hiring Caucasian inter
preters and receptionists, was another strategy to reach Caucasian clients, and
 was a common practice among the more established herbal physicians. How
ever, some interpreters that the herbalists hired knew little or no Chinese, let
 alone herbal medicine. The Chinese of Yitang’s partner, a Mr. Holmes, was
 good enough to greet Chinese clients in Cantonese.67 Tom Leung’s interpreter,
 a Mr. Hallow, could not speak Chinese at all.68 Such “interpreters” functioned
 more nearly as cultural intermediaries for the Caucasian clients.
 The herbalists also liked to have Caucasian partners with medical li
censes. Some herbalists hired Mexican women who could speak both English
 and Spanish, to target Mexican clients. And Caucasian employees could help
 the herbalists communicate with local newspapers about advertising, and with
 the courts, police, and attorneys when unfair charges were imposed on them.
 When Yitang started his business, he chose Holmes as his Caucasian
 partner. Holmes had worked with a couple of Chinese herbalists and knew a
 little Cantonese. He was also a chiropractor, apparently, as he offered spinal
 adjustments in the advertising flyers. In the advertisement, Holmes was pre
sented sometimes as the superintendent, or manager, and sometimes as a phy
sician, while Yitang Chang was always the manager; with Holmes’s license,
 Yitang’s herbal business could take patients. Caucasian partners also played
 a role that no Chinese partner could play. They could serve as white witnesses
 in immigration issues. When Yitang applied for his reentry permit in 1904
 for his visit to China, he submitted notarized testimony of three Caucasian
 friends. In 1911, Yitang applied for the admission of a relative who had landed
 on September 22 and was detained at Angel Island. In his testimony, Holmes
 claimed that he had known Yitang for eight years, and that Yitang was “the
 herbalist of the Chinese-American Herbal Co. for which I am the manager;
 and he attends to the buying and importing.” Holmes also handled the leas
ing agreement of the company, as Chinese partners might have a hard time
 leasing or buying property in a white business area, especially after Califor
Herbal Medicine
 61
 nia passed the Alien Land Act in 1913. Yitang confirmed that Holmes had
 attended to leasing, when immigration officers interviewed him. In the testi
mony, Holmes had no hesitation to call himself a physician, but Yitang al
ways carefully described himself as an herbalist with no right to diagnose
 patients but only the right to sell herbal medicine. However, the issue of mer
chant status was more important than the issue of medical titles, in immigra
tion testimony. Mr. Knell, another white witness, accidentally referred to
 Yitang as a doctor several times in his testimony, but apparently in this in
stance it did not cause the immigration officer to fault Yitang. Of the eight
 partners of the Chinese-American Herbal Company operated by Yitang, four
 were Caucasians.69
 Interestingly enough, chiropractice was also an alternative healing prac
tice at that time. All practitioners not trained in medical schools following
 the orthodoxy medical principles transplanted from Europe were labeled
 “quacks” or “folk doctors,” though, before the twentieth century, orthodox
 physicians, represented by the American Medical Association, could do little
 about these practitioners. Therefore, Chinese herbalists were not the only prac
titioners of unorthodox or nondominant medicine when they brought their
 profession to the United States. Commercial advertisements by the herbal
ists often appeared side by side with those of chiropractors. There were cases
 of chiropractors opening a practice together with a herbalist, such as that of
 Holmes working with Yitang for several years.
 Beginning in the early twentieth century, however, healing systems per
formed mainly by Caucasians, such as chiropractic or botanical healing,
 gradually achieved legal status, while the Chinese herbalists were never
 granted licenses to conduct medical diagnosis. Hundreds of chiropractors were
 arrested for practicing medicine without a license in the early twentieth cen
tury. To fight for their legal status, Chiropractors Association of Alameda
 County, California, requested its members to protest by going to jail rather
 than paying a fine. In 1923, when public opinion favored the chiropractors,
 the governor of California pardoned all jailed chiropractors.70 It is worth
 mentioning that there were Chinese chiropractors as well.71 The shared al
ternative medical perspective served as a basis for the cooperation between
 herbalists and chiropractors.
 Herbal Medicine as a Family Business
 The herbal business is not a labor-intensive profession, but an herbal
ist still needs assistants to prepare and dispense medicines. In China, a
62
 The Transnational History
 pulsologist would only do diagnosis, leaving such miscellaneous tasks to a
 pharmacist. But herbal practice in America could not afford such specializa
tion, so many herbalists hired assistants. The 1887 article “Chinese Drug
 Stores in America” noted that in Philadelphia clerks working in herbal shops
 were responsible for bookkeeping and preparing and dispensing medicine.72
 Nevertheless, in most cases, herbal medicine was a family business, using
 unpaid or underpaid family members.
 Before he married Nellie, Yitang ran his herbal shop by himself. As a
 hard-working physician, he ran two offices—one on South Hill Street and
 another, above Tsui Fai Low Restaurant in Chinatown, for appointments in
 the evening. He took a bus to get there, and worked there from 7:30 p.m. to
 9:00 p.m., when most Chinese small businessmen and laborers had finished
 work. His herbal business became a family affair after he married Nellie Yee.
 As an American-born Chinese woman, Nellie spoke, and had a reading knowl
edge of, both Chinese and English.73 She played an indispensable role in
 Yitang’s store. While remaining responsible for the heavy household chores
 such as cooking and laundry, she quickly learned how to handle almost ev
ery aspect of the herbal business. She knew how to read prescriptions in Chi
nese, and to take out the exact amount of herbs from the right drawers, wrap
 them up, and hand them to the clients. It was by no means an easy job. In
 the herbal room, she needed to identify the right herbs among hundreds of
 drawers labeled in Chinese characters.74
 As herbal tea tasted bitter, many Caucasian patients found it difficult
 to drink. Yitang made herbal pills covered with honey, as an alternative for
 these patients. Making pills was a labor-intensive job. The grinding tool was
 a heavy implement of iron. Because it looked like a boat, with a cylinder in
 the middle and two handles on the sides, Yitang’s family referred to it as the
 “rocking boat.” Grinding was arduous work that required the use of feet or
 knees to propel the handles over and over until the herbs were ground al
most into powder. Sometimes a hired relative did this work; sometimes it was
 done by Yitang. When Yitang’s feet and knees grew weak, Nellie took over
 the job. She always wore low-heeled shoes to work the “rocking boat.” The
 ground powder was poured through a sieve and mixed with hot honey, be
fore it was thoroughly steamed. The family would then shape the medicine
 into small balls, barely bigger than green beans, in pans, and let them gradu
ally dry. If some were not dry enough, the family would heat them briefly in
 the oven. Once the pills were complete dry, the family would put them into
 little bottles and seal the bottles. The pills were more convenient than herbal
 tea, as the patients did not have to cook the medicine; patients could also
Herbal Medicine
 63
 consume them with water, as the pills still tasted a little bitter. Many patients,
 however, adapted themselves to the herbal medicine; they would come every
 year during the flu season, buy packages adequate for several weeks, and then
 cook the medicine at home. Some patients requested medicine be sent through
 the mail when they moved out of the Los Angeles area. There were also pa
tients who sought consultation and treatment through correspondence.75
 Yitang bought herbs from wholesale dealers in Chinatown or imported
 herbs from China himself. In immigration testimony, Sam Chang indicated
 that the family herbal store purchased herbs from a company called Dock
 On Chung Company in Hong Kong, the Jop Lon Tong and Jon Ming Tang
 company in San Francisco and a wholesale herbal company called Tai Wo
 Tong (Tai Wu Tang) in Los Angeles.76 Sometimes wholesale companies de
livered the herbs; sometimes family members needed to pick up the supply
 themselves. After Nellie married Yitang in 1910, the family lived outside of
 Chinatown, moving among locations at 917 South Hill and elsewhere.77 Al
though she hardly had gone out of doors before marriage, Nellie learned how
 to drive in order to pick up the herbs. Yitang purchased a car for the busi
ness but, after a car accident, was nervous about driving. He asked Nellie if
 she dared to drive; if she didn’t, he would sell the family car. Nellie replied,
 “It seems so easy to drive a car. I might as well learn.” To Yitang’s great sur
prise, Nellie got her driving license after a month’s practice with her brother
 Bill. With her driving skill, Nellie helped deliver medicines to patients, buy
 groceries, drive the children to school and bring back heavy loads of medi
cine from Tai Wo Tong in Chinatown. Nellie was one of the few Chinese
 women who could drive, during that period. With this skill, she became more
 active in social affairs, and in the months before the United States entered
 the Second World War she took part, with other Chinese American women,
 in the protests against American scrap iron exports to Japan.
 Often, Yitang’s house also served as a residential office. At their home
 on South Hill Street, the family lived upstairs, while downstairs Yitang had a
 spacious five-room office. Two rooms were used as waiting rooms; in an
other, Yitang took the pulses of patients and wrote prescriptions. In yet an
other, he administered medicine or had patients take medicinal teas. The stove
 in the family’s big kitchen had six burners, which could cook up to seven
teen or eighteen pots of medicine in one afternoon. For each patient Nellie
 would pack a week’s prescription into seven paper bags. Medicine was cooked
 on a slow fire in numbered pots, for forty-five minutes to an hour, then ad
ministered in beautiful porcelain bowls. Yee Pai, son of Yitang’s third elder
 brother, helped pour the tea and took it to the patients, who already could
64
 The Transnational History
 smell the unusual aromas wafting from the stove. Some patients drank the
 hot herbal tea like soup, spoonful by spoonful. Others waited for it to cool
 enough to gulp down. More experienced patients would pick up a whole
 week’s prescription and brew the medicine themselves. Yitang would provide
 specific directions on how to cook the herbs.
 When the living room was full of patients waiting for medicine or treat
ment, Yitang’s daughter Lillian and son Arthur might go downstairs and chat
 with them. Sometimes they helped serve crackers so that the herbal soup
 would not taste so bitter for a patient. Although they were still young and
 often would be holding a toy while talking to patients, they knew this was
 their family business. As Nellie helped make pills with “the grinding boat”
 and the sieve, Lillian and Arthur also learned how to shape the pills with their
 hands. When Holmes left the business and as they grew a bit older, they
 helped interpret for their father. Having been involved in the herbal business,
 Yitang’s American-born children were also exposed firsthand to an impor
tant piece of Chinese culture. A Chinese family business was not merely an
 economic entity, but also an ethnic cultural island. Since an herbal store, laun
dry service, gift shop, grocery, or bakery could function simultaneously as
 living quarters, the Chinese language, culture, family values, and traditions
 were transmitted there though interactions between parents and children.
 When children reached school age and acquired English fluency, they in turn
 became interpreters for their parents in the family business and a bridge to
 mainstream American society. Surrounded by a hostile racial environment in
 the larger society, family life offered mutual support in the business and fos
tered close relationships among family members.
 Restrictions on Herbal Business
 An ironic challenge to Chinese herbalists was the fact that their pro
fession represented Chinese culture. At the same time that their white pa
tients accepted and preferred herbal medicine to Western medicine, Chinese
 culture was regarded as an inferior culture in American society. In their prac
tice, the practitioners needed to emphasize their ethnic background as a proof
 of their authenticity. Most herbalists would claim that their skill was a fam
ily tradition for many generations, or that they had learned the skill from a
 master scholar in a royal medical college. Famous herbalists in Southern Cali
fornia, like Tom Foo Yuen or Tom Leung, claimed they had been trained and
 served in the Imperial Medical College of Peking (Beijing) before their ar
rival in America. (However, even Tom Leung’s children were suspicious of
Herbal Medicine
 65
 that claim.)78 In their offices, some herbalists wore Chinese robes and round
 Mandarin hats as a trademark for their profession, while others would hang
 framed certificates of a medical degree in fact been issued by friends in the
 Chinese government. There did seem too many royal doctors for one emperor,
 among the Chinese herbalists.
 Yitang used a more American style to approach his clients. He often
 dressed up in a three-piece suit in his office, thus looking more like a West
ern professional. Many other herbalists, especially those with more white pa
tients, also wore Western clothes at work. In the newspaper advertisements,
 photos of herbalists in traditional Chinese clothes often existed side by side
 with photos of those in Western suits. The Mandarin hat and robe looked the
atrical and eccentric in twentieth-century Southern California, but it was one
 approach that worked for some herbalists anxious to show their authenticity
 as true Chinese doctors.
 Being an alternative therapy and an ethnic practice competing for
 American patients meant that the image of herbal medicine suffered from all
 kinds of distortion and prejudice. As noted, Chinese herbalists carried out
 persistent campaigns against stereotypes and distortions of herbal medicine.
 They published books, wrote articles in newspapers and journals, and made
 extensive use of the testimonies by their Caucasian patients in courts, to de
fend the effectiveness of herbal medicine. In Los Angeles, Tom Foo Yuen was
 repeatedly attacked by Western medical organizations. Dr. P. C. Remondino,
 then president of the Southern California Medical Association, made a vi
cious attack on Chinese herbal medicine. Tom replied in the Los Angeles Times
 of 15 August 1895 with an elaborate article defending such medicine; the
 deep anger and resentment he felt resonates through the article. This article
 caused Remondino to write another offensive article, to which Tom further
 replied. The debate aroused a great deal of attention.79 After this debate, Tom
 wrote, then published in 1897, a booklet called The Science of Oriental Medi
cine. In their writings, herbalists carefully explained the history, theory, and
 function of herbal medicine and presented it as a medical science as respect
able as Western medicine. To prove their point, the herbalists quoted presti
gious Western academic sources. For example, in the first chapter of The
 Science of Oriental Medicine, Tom Foo Yuen quoted an article from the En
cyclopedia Britannica, which praised the Chinese as first-rate artists in ev
ery kind of manufacturing and noted that “their physicians have a thorough
 knowledge of the virtue of herbals, and an admirable skill in diagnosing by
 the pulse.”80 Both Tom Foo Yuen and Fong Wan argued that Chinese herbal
 medicine had a longer tradition and more sophisticated theory, than Western
66
 The Transnational History
 medicine, and was more effective in dealing with many difficult symptoms.
 Tom wrote:
 The Oriental system has cured thousands of cases of various forms
 of disease, which had been abandoned by other doctors. This has been
 established beyond the possibility of dispute. In fact, we prefer to
 treat so-called incurable cases. As a rule Caucasians have been un
willing to consult us until they had tried every other form of medi
cal treatment within their reach. . . . In other words, we have lived
 in Southern California long enough to establish a reputation, and to
 secure a following.81
 Testimonies by Caucasian patients were used as evidence to prove the effec
tiveness of Chinese herbal medicine. To defend themselves from racial ste
reotypes, the herbalists often emphasized that common white people were
 ignorant of the greatness of Chinese civilization and failed to distinguish the
 educated, elite Chinese from the low laboring classes. Presenting themselves
 as high-class Chinese, the herbalists pointed out that the herbal physician was
 a respected professional in China. One cannot help noting that this argument
 displays little concern for the sensibility of working-class Chinese.
 As mainstream medical organizations, with the endorsement of local
 government, viciously distorted herbal medicine as a pseudoscience and sup
pressed it harshly by enforcing “medical care” laws, Chinese herbalists were
 often engaged in legal battles. The article “Chinese Physicians in California”
 noted that Chinese herbal medicine was not recognized by law in California,
 and the judicial records of the state showed that herbalists were often arrested
 and fined for their practice. The pioneer herbalist Li Pu-tai suffered from a
 great deal of harassment from Western medical professionals and law offic
ers in his early years of practice. Later he used his friendships with Senator
 Leland Stanford and Governor Mark Hopkins to obtain some protection.82
 Fong Wan of Oakland was another famous herbal physician during this
 period. As one of the most established Chinese physicians in the San Fran
cisco area, he was known as the “King of the Herbalists.” From 1915 to the
 mid-1930s, he received several thousand patients and became one of the most
 well-known and wealthiest Chinese herbalists in the area. His success earned
 him not only fame but also envy. According to his book, Western doctors
 launched a great campaign against Chinese herbalists from 1929 to 1932, and
 involved people from all walks of life. For example, the postal masters sent
 fraudulent orders, for the purpose of entrapping the Chinese physicians, and
 examined the return letters for negative information to use in legal testimo
Herbal Medicine
 67
 nies. Fong Wan was repeatedly sued by envious Western doctors, and had to
 appear many times in both local and federal courts. At a federal court on 29
 July 1931, Wan was indicted on sixteen counts of criminal and other charges.
 Pharmacologists, postmasters, professors, chemists, and physicians were all
 brought to the court to testify against him. Hiring his own lawyers, and us
ing many favorable Caucasian patients’ testimonies, Wan was proved not
 guilty. During his career, he went through and won dozens of medical cases.
 In 1925, when an Anti-Herbal Bill was introduced into the State Assembly,
 Fong Wan went to Sacramento and presented the arguments and facts instru
mental in having the bill withdrawn.83
 Yitang Chang and other Chinese herbal physicians in the Los Angeles
 area, also, had to deal with extensive legal harassment, at that time. The herb
alists deposited money in banks and hired lawyers, to help bail them out if
 they were arrested during a suit. Like Fong Wan, they used Caucasian pa
tients’ testimonies, and hired Caucasian lawyers for their defense if they had
 to appear in court. For example, Tom Leung used to hire Thomas White and
 Paul Shenck as his attorneys. Both were famous Southern California law
yers of the period.84 Sam Chang’s daughter remembered that Yitang had con
sulted on legal issues with Carey McWilliams, who was not only a historian
 but had a law degree.85
 The herbalists used different strategies to resist racial harassment.
 Yitang’s friend Tom Leung was a very aggressive herbalist. He was arrested
 numerous times on the charge of practicing medicine without a license, but
 he did not give up using the “Doctor” title until the late 1920s, and even pub
lished a book in 1928, Chinese Herbal Medicine, to spread his reputation
 and vehemently defend his profession. The book Sweet Bamboo, by his daugh
ter Louise Leung Larson, contains a vivid description of how Chinese herbal
 physicians in Southern California were harassed at that time:
 Father did well as an herbalist, too well, in the opinion of the Ameri
can Medical Association and the Board of Medical Examiners. He
 and the other Chinese herbalists in Los Angeles at that time were
 accused of practicing medicine without a license because they used
 the title “Doctor” and felt the pulse as one way of diagnosis. Papa
 was a special target and was arrested over 100 times on the misde
meanor charge. . . . The police, at times, used stool pigeons—people
 pretending to be patients—and would arrest Papa after the usual con
sultation. Sometimes a whole squad of police would arrive in a pa
trol car and raid our home. I came to view the AMA and the Board,
68
 The Transnational History
 as well as the police, as our mortal enemies. Papa was unflappable,
 even the time when he was hauled off in the patrol wagon. He had
 set up a routine for these crises. As soon as the police came, the sec
retary phoned A. C. Way of the First National Bank to arrange for
 bail.86
 Only after Dr. Leung ceased to call himself a doctor and changed his com
pany name to “Leung Herbal Company” did the harassment gradually decline.
 Yitang Chang was also repeatedly charged by local medical organiza
tions in Los Angeles for claiming to be a physician without a doctor’s title,
 and the organizations demanded he stop his medical practice, in accordance
 with California law. Yitang dealt with the harassment by keeping a low pro
file. His son Arthur recalled: “There were medical societies questioning fa
ther whether he treated patients or not. He always said that he was an herbal
 seller. He never advertised his business. Other patients referred all his pa
tients. He did run into some trouble before but he got out of it.”87 Yitang’s
 children remembered that their home was searched and a large, tall police
man frisked their father though no one was arrested. To carry out his herbal
 business, Yitang applied for a license as a drug store. He also worked with
 Holmes, whose chiropractor’s license gave the business some excuse to take
 patients and diverted the attention of medical organizations. Seldom did
 Chang advertise his business in newspapers, as he sought his new clients
 through referrals by his old patients.
 The Western Medical Association (the western arm of the American
 Medical Association) was not the only organization to chase after herbalists.
 The INS, as noted, regularly questioned the herbalists, in immigration testi
monies, about their profession and to see if they followed the law. When
 Yitang and Sam appeared in the INS office for interviews, the officers often
 asked them if their herbal business provided medical service. Both always
 carefully emphasized that they only sold herbs and did not practice medi
cine. In an interview in 1926, for example, the officer specifically challenged
 Sam by asking “Do you ever render any professional services, that is acting
 in the capacity of a physician down there?” Sam categorically replied, “No,
 we sell herbs, that’s all.” Checking their professional service status, the agency
 sometimes sought an excuse to reject Yitang or Sam’s qualifications to sponsor
 family members to America. In another question, the officer asked: “What
 class do you cater to principally?” Sam replied: “Both to Chinese and Ameri
cans.”88 Obviously, catering to Caucasian clients was an important criterion
 to measure an herbalist’s social status. Serving Chinese as major clients could
Herbal Medicine
 69
 be interpreted as associating with lower-class people and might be cause to
 disqualify Sam’s merchant status. The above two questions to Sam by INS
 officers show how narrowly herbal medicine was defined as an economic
 niche for the Chinese and how carefully they had to tread in the prejudiced
 environment of the times. By his low profile and by offering service to both
 Caucasian and Chinese patients, Yitang survived racist harassment and car
ried out his herbal business until the late 1940s. During World War II, the
 Japanese invasion of China had already disrupted the herbalists’ business to
 a great extent, as the herb supply was cut off, especially after the Japanese
 occupied Guangdong and Hong Kong. But it was especially after the Trad
ing with the Enemy Act was passed in December 1950 and trade between
 the United States and China was suspended, that many Chinese herbalists had
 to discontinue their business. In the year before his death, Yitang was bed
ridden with swollen legs, probably due to a heart problem. When he died in
 1952, the Chinese herbal business was already shrinking rapidly. It was done
 in, not by discrimination but by the federal ban on Chinese imports that fol
lowed the establishment of the People’s Republic of China in 1949.
 The history of herbal medicine demonstrates how Chinese immigrants
 used an ethnic skill to create a lucrative and respected career outside the lim
ited sphere of menial labor jobs typically open to them at the time. One has
 to admire these early herbalists, for theirs was also a profession carrying great
 risk. As with any doctor’s practice, the responsibility of dealing with human
 health and lives was great, and any failure or problems in the herbalists’ treat
ment could result in a harsh response. The challenges that the herbalists had
 to meet and the obstacles that they had to overcome illustrate how Chinese
 immigrants creatively explored their economic opportunities and vigorously
 defended them when threatened.
 Equipped with an ethnic medical skill, relying on family labor and
 transnational networks, and taking care of patients of all ethnic groups, the
 herbalists became among the few immigrant professionals to successfully
 break into the American medical market. Their success is not a “melting pot”
 story, with immigrants assimilating into mainstream society, but a story of
 reverse assimilation, in which white Americans opened up to, gained a greater
 appreciation for, and reaped benefit from another, in this case Asian, culture.