Among the thousands of pioneers flocking to CaHfornia during the
 gold rush were 325 forty-niners "from a different shore" 
— China.
 Like their counterparts from the eastern United States and elsewhere,
 they came to search for gold. A year later, 450 more Chinese arrived
 in California; then suddenly, they came in greatly increasing num
bers— 2,716 in 1851 and 20,026 in 1852. By 1870, there were
 63,000 Chinese in the United States. Most of them 
— 77 percent 
—
 were in California, but they were also elsewhere in the West as well
 as in the Southwest, New England, and the South. The Chinese con
stituted a sizable proportion of the population in certain areas: 29
 percent in Idaho, 10 percent in Montana, and 9 percent in California.
 Virtually all adult males, they had a greater economic significance
 than their numbers would indicate: in California, the Chinese rep
resented 25 percent of the entire work force.
 During the nineteenth century, Chinese communities in the
 United States were diverse and in transition. The Chinese were pre
dominantly a rural population for several decades: in 1870, only 24
 percent of California's Chinese population lived in San Francisco.
 But increasingly the Chinese became an urban population. They lived
 in San Francisco {Dai Fou, or "Big City"), Sacramento {Yee Fou, or
 "Second City"), Stockton {Sam Fou, or "Third City"), Marysville,
 and Los Angeles. By 1900, 45 percent of all Chinese in California
 lived in San Francisco and the Bay Area, and two thirds of the state's
 Chinese were urban dwellers. The Chinese represented a wide range
 of classes. Between 1870 and 1900, approximately 40 percent of the
 Chinese in San Francisco and Sacramento were businessmen such as
8o
 Strangers
 shopkeepers and merchants, 5 to 12 percent professionals and arti
sans, and the remainder wage-earning workers. In the rural regions,
 farmers, labor contractors, and merchants constituted only about 15
 percent of the Chinese population, while over 80 percent were service
 workers and farm laborers. By the end of the nineteenth century, the
 Chinese had spread geographically: only 51 percent of the total
 Chinese population resided in California, and 14,693, or 16 percent,
 lived in the North Atlantic region, representing the beginnings of
 Chinatowns in Boston and New York City.
 As the first Asian group to enter America, the Chinese merit
 our close attention. What happened to them in the nineteenth century
 represented the beginning of a pattern for the ways Asians would be
 viewed and treated here
 —their transformation into Georg Simmel's
 "strangers." But their identity as outsiders was determined not only
 by their entry but also by a complex combination of economic, ideo
logical, and political developments in American society. New "ne
cessities" drove the Chinese after they arrived in Gold Mountain.^
 Searching for Gold Mountain
 Initially, the Chinese were welcomed in California. "Quite a large
 number of the Celestials have arrived among us of late, enticed thither
 by the golden romance that has filled the world," the Daily Alta
 California reported in 1852. "Scarcely a ship arrives that does not
 bring an increase to this worthy integer of our population." The
 paper then predicted that "the China boys will yet vote at the same
 polls, study at the same schools and bow at the same altar as our
 own countrymen." Three years later, San Francisco merchant Lai
 Chun-Chuen sanguinely observed that "the people of the Flowery
 land were received like guests," and "greeted with favor. Each treated
 the other with politeness. From far and near we came and were
 pleased."^
 Lai and his fellow gam saan haak ("travelers to Gold Moun
tain") had reason to be pleased. At the celebration of CaHfornia's
 admission into the Union in 1850, the Chinese participated in the
 ceremonies, along with American citizens. Happily acknowledging
 the presence of the Chinese and other foreigners in California, Justice
 Nathaniel Bennett declared: "Born and reared under different Gov
ernments and speaking different tongues, we nevertheless meet here
 to-day as brothers. . . . 
You stand among us in all respects as
 Henceforth we have one country, one hope, one destiny."
 In August, MayorJohn W. Geary ofSan Francisco invited the Chinese
 equals. . . .
Gam Saan Haak
 8i
 to join with the citizens of the city in a memorial for the late President
 Zachary Taylor. "The China Boys feel proud of the distinction you
 have shown them," wrote As-sing and A-he on behalf of the Chinese
 to the mayor, "and will always endeavor to merit your good opinion
 and the good opinion of the citizens of their adopted country." Two
 years later, at the celebration of George Washington's birthday in
 San Francisco, "all countries" were represented in the ceremonies,
 observed a visitor. In the parade passed the "French, Spanish and
 Hebrew Societies" and then "some two hundred Celestials, or, as
 their banner termed them 'China boys of San Francisco.' Preceded
 by their mandarins and a band of music, straggling and evidently
 amused with their position, came this large delegation of our most
 orderly and industrious citizens." The Chinese future in America
 seemed auspicious. In his January 1852 address to the California
 legislature, Governor John McDougal declared that more Chinese
 migrants would be needed to help drain the state's swamplands,
 praising them as "one of the most worthy classes of our newly
 adopted citizens
 —to whom the climate and the character of these
 lands are pecuHarly suited."^
 But Governor McDougal failed to sense the rapidly changing
 political climate that had begun to turn against the Chinese. Coming
 down from the foothills and gathering force as it reached Sacramento
 emerged a nativist cry, "California for Americans." Seeking to drive
 out the French, Mexican, Hawaiian, Chilean, and especially the
 Chinese from the gold fields, American white miners demanded that
 the state eliminate competition from foreign miners. Four months
 later, after John Bigler had been installed as the new governor, a
 committee of the California Assembly issued a report on the problems
 generated by the presence of Chinese miners. "The concentration,
 within our State limits, of vast numbers of the Asiatic races, and of
 the inhabitants of the Pacific Islands, and of many others dissimilar
 from ourselves in customs, language and education" threatened the
 well-being of the mining districts, the committee stated. Most of the
 Asian laborers were "servile contract laborers"; not seeking to be
come American citizens, they degraded the American white workers
 already in the state and discouraged other Americans from coming
 to California. To halt the threat, the committee recommended the
 enactment of a foreign miners' license tax. A week later, in his special
 message to the legislature. Governor Bigler suggested that the state
 use its police power to prohibit the immigration of Chinese into
 California. Calling for extraordinary measures to check the "tide
82
 Strangers
 of Asiatic immigration," Bigler recommended legislation to pro
hibit contract labor and to impose heavy taxes on the Chinese in
 California/
 In May of 1852, the legislature passed the foreign miners' license
 tax. The racial purpose of this new tax was transparent: aimed mainly
 at the Chinese, this new tax required a monthly payment of three
 dollars from every foreign miner who did not desire to become a
 citizen. Even had they so desired, the Chinese could not have become
 citizens, for they had been rendered ineligible to citizenship by the
 1790 federal law that reserved naturalized citizenship to "white"
 persons. The California tax law provided that the revenues raised be
 shared equally by the state and the counties where the mines were
 located. The foreign miners' tax remained in force until it was voided
 by the federal Civil Rights Act of 1870. By then California had
 collected $5 million from the Chinese, a sum representing between
 25 and 50 percent of all state revenue. In 1855, the legislature passed
 a law entitled, "An Act to Discourage the Immigration to this State
 of Persons Who Cannot Become Citizens Thereof." This law imposed
 on the master or owner of a ship a landing tax of fifty dollars for
 each passenger ineligible to naturalized citizenship. Seven years later
 the legislature went even further, enacting a law "to protect Free
 White Labor against competition with Chinese Coolie Labor, and to
 Discourage the Immigration of the Chinese into the State of Cali
fornia." This law levied a capitation tax of $2.50 per month on all
 Chinese residing in the state, excepting Chinese operating businesses,
 licensed to work in the mines, or engaged in the production of sugar,
 rice, coffee, or tea. Clearly all of this legislation was seeking not
 revenue but Chinese exclusion.^
 By then, 24,000 Chinese, two thirds of the Chinese population
 in America, were working in California mines. Most Chinese miners
 in the 1860s were independent prospectors. Many of them organized
 themselves into small groups, consisting of as many as forty partners,
 and formed their own companies. Many Chinese miners in Yuba
 County, historian Sucheng Chan has discovered, obtained their placer
 claims through preemption rather than purchase. Under a preemption
 claim, the miner filed the required application in the county record's
 office and marked the boundaries of the claim. Thus in 1856 Ah
 Louie and Company claimed 240 feet at Buckeye Bar along the Yuba
 River, and Sham Kee 4,200 feet along the same river eight miles
 outside of Marysville. Many of the companies did well, renewing
Gam Saan Haak
 83
 their claims annually and often even purchasing them. Ah Chung
 and Company, for example, purchased two claims, sixty feet each,
 from Frederick Antenheimer and John Lawrence, paying $620 for
 the claims, two wheelbarrows, and some running planks.^
 Chinese miners worked m.ainly placer claims. To extract the
 gold, they shoveled sand from the stream into a pan or rocker, then
 washed away the sand and dirt to allow any heavy particles of gold
 to remain on the bottom. A traveler in the Sierra Nevada saw "long
 files of Chinamen alone" breaking the "monotony of the landscape"
 as they scraped and washed "the sands in the nearby dry beds of the
 torrents." The Chinese miners in El Dorado County, the Mountain
 Democrat reported, generally worked in "old deserted claims" where
 they realized only about two to three dollars a day, and when they
 found a good claim, they would "buy it and pay liberally for it."''
 Chinese miners became a common sight in the California foot
hills, especially along the Yuba River and its tributaries and in town
ships like Long Bar, North-east Bar, and Foster Bar. They wore blue
 cotton blouses, broad trousers, wooden shoes, and wide-brimmed
 hats, their hair closely cropped with long, jet black queues hanging
 one . . .
 down behind. A newspaper correspondent described companies of
 twenty to thirty Chinese "inhabiting close cabins, so small that
 would not be of sufficient size to allow a couple of Americans
 to breathe in it. Chinamen, stools, tables, cooking utensils, bunks,
 etc., all huddled up together in indiscriminate confusion, and en
wreathed with dense smoke, presented a spectacle." Day-to-day life
 for the Chinese miners was competitive and anxious. Telegrams sent
 from Downieville captured much of the tenseness in their lives:
 Quong Chung Shing &c Co
 724 Com'cl St., San Francisco
 Downieville, Cal.,
 March 2, 1874
 Git Wo, I 
want you pay your cousin Ah Hoey expenses to
 come Downieville quick attend to claim. Am afraid there will
 be big fight. Answer.
 Fong Sing / 
Kim Bayo
 Ah Chu
 Downieville, Cal.,
 March 4, 1874
 Trouble about mining claims. I 
owe a share and all the
 company want you come. I 
want you come. Ans yes or no.
 Fong Sing / 
Ah Jake
84
 Strangers
 Yu Wo & Co
 717 Dupont St., San Francisco
 What the price of opium. Answer.
 Downieville, Cal.,
 March 28, 1874
 Fong Wo & C08
 During the mid 1860s, profits in gold mining decreased, and
 Chinese miners began leaving the gold fields. By 1870 there were
 only 16,000 Chinese miners, a third of the Chinese population. Some
 of them had become wage earners, working in quartz mines. Chinese
 found they generally could not enter quartz mining except as laborers
 employed by whites because they lacked capital to purchase the heavy
 equipment and machinery necessary to remove the gold deposits from
 the hard-rock quartz. White owners of the quartz mines realized the
 Chinese would enable them to drive downward the wages of white
 workers. In 1869, the Daily Alta California enthusiastically sup
ported the use of the Chinese in quartz mining: "The Chinamen are
 ploughmen, laundrymen, placer miners, woolen spinners and weav
ers, domestic servants, cigar makers, shoemakers, and railroad build
ers to the great benefit of the State, and why should they not be
 quartz miners?"^
 What the Daily Alta California observed was part of a larger
 development
 —the transformation of Chinese immigrants from en
trepreneurs to wage earners, from independent prospectors with their
 own claims to workers dependent on capitalists for their livelihood.
 Increasingly, their employers were white. By 1880, as historian Chan
 has noted, 70 percent of the Chinese in Sacramento City and 67
 percent in Marysville were dependent on white employers. This pat
tern could be found elsewhere, becoming pronounced as the Chinese
 moved out of mining and as they became wage earners in the in
dustrial sector of the economy.'*^
 One of the most important areas of Chinese industrial employ
ment was railroad construction. In February of 1865, fifty Chinese
 workers were hired by the Central Pacific Railroad to help lay the
 tracks for the transcontinental line leading east from Sacramento;
 shortly afterward fifty more Chinese were hired. The new laborers
 were praised by company president Leland Stanford as "quiet, peace
able, industrious, economical
 —ready and apt to learn all the dif
ferent kinds of work" required in railroad building. "They prove
 nearly equal to white men in the amount of labor they perform, and
 are much more reliable," the company superintendent Charles
Gam Saan Haak
 85
 Crocker reported. "No danger of strikes among them. We are training
 them to all kinds of labor: blasting, driving horses, handling rock as
 well as pick and shovel." The white workers demanded that the
 company stop hiring Chinese laborers, and Crocker retorted: "We
 can't get enough white labor to build this railroad, and build it 
we
 must, so we're forced to hire them. If you can't get along with them,
 we have only one alternative. We'll let you go and hire nobody but
 them." Within two years, 12,000 Chinese were employed by the
 Central Pacific Railroad, representing 90 percent of the entire work
 force. The savings derived from the employment of Chinese rather
 than white workers was enormous. The company paid the Chinese
 workers thirty-one dollars a month; had it used white workers it
 would have had to pay them the same wages plus board and lodging,
 which would have increased labor costs by one third."
 The construction of the Central Pacific Railroad line was a
 Chinese achievement. Not only did they perform the physical labor
 required to clear trees and lay tracks; they also provided important
 technical labor by operating power drills and handling explosives for
 boring tunnels through the Donner Summit. In his account of the
 summit's penetration, superintendent Crocker stated: "We had a
 shaft down in the center. We were cutting both ways from the bottom
 of that shaft. . . . 
[We] got some Cornish miners [from Virginia City]
 shaft . . .
 and paid them extra wages. We put them into one side of the
 and we had Chinamen on the other side. We measured the
 work every Sunday morning; and the Chinamen without fail, always
 outmeasured the Cornish miners. . . . 
The Chinese are skilled in using
 the hammer and drill; and they proved themselves equal to the best
 Cornish miners in that work."^^
 The Chinese workers were, in one observer's description, "a
 great army laying siege to Nature in her strongest citadel. The rugged
 mountains looked like stupendous ant-hills. They swarmed with Ce
lestials, shoveling, wheeling, carting, drilling and blasting rocks and
 earth." Time was critical to the company's interest, for the amount
 of payment it received in land and subsidy from the federal govern
ment was based on the miles oftrack it built. Determined to accelerate
 construction, the Central Pacific managers forced the Chinese labor
ers to work through the winter of 1866. The snowdrifts, over sixty
 feet in height, covered construction operations. The Chinese workers
 lived and worked in tunnels under the snow, with shafts to give them
 air and lanterns to light the way. Snowslides occasionally buried
8 6
 Strangers
 camps and crews; in the spring, workers found the thawing corpses,
 still upright, their cold hands gripping shovels and picks and their
 mouths twisted in frozen terror. "The snow slides carried away our
 camps and we lost a good many men in those slides," a company
 official reported matter-of-factly; "many of them we did not find
 until the next season when the snow melted."'^
 The Chinese workers struck that spring. Demanding wages of
 forty-five dollars a month and an eight-hour day, 5,000 laborers
 walked out "as one man." The company offered to raise wages from
 thirty-one to thirty-five dollars a month, but the strikers spurned the
 offer and stood by their original demands. "Eight hours a day good
 for white men, all the same good for Chinamen," they declared. The
 San Francisco Alta condemned the strike as a conspiracy: "The foun
dation of this strike appears to have been a circular, printed in the
 Chinese language, sent among them by designing persons for the
 purpose of destroying their efficiency as laborers." The insinuation
 was transparent: the strikers' demands had been merely drummed
 up, and agents of the competing Union Pacific were behind the
 Chinese protest. The intent was to nullify the possibility that the
 Chinese workers had minds and wills of their own and were capable
 of acting in their own interests. Meanwhile, the Central Pacific man
agers moved to break the Chinese strike. They wired New York to
 inquire about the feasibility of transporting 10,000 blacks to replace
 the striking Chinese. Superintendent Crocker isolated the strikers and
 cut off their food supply. "I stopped the provisions on them," he
 stated, "stopped the butchers from butchering, and used such coercive
 measures." Coercion worked. Virtually imprisoned in their camps in
 the Sierras and forced into starvation, the strikers surrendered within
 a week.^"*
 Beaten, the Chinese returned to work and completed the rail
road, the "new highway to the commerce of Asia." The crucial par
ticipation of the Chinese was widely admitted. In an essay on
 "Manifest Destiny in the West," a writer for the Overland Monthly
 exclaimed: "The dream of Thomas Jefferson, and the desires of
 Thomas H. Benton's heart, have been wonderfully fulfilled, so far as
 the Pacific Railroad and the trade with the old world of the East is
 concerned. But even they did not prophesy that Chinamen should
 build the Pacificward end of the road." In 1869, at Promontory Point,
 where the last two railroad tracks were finally connected, fifteen
 hundred people, including prominent individuals from across the
Gam Saan Haak
 country, gathered to celebrate the historic moment. Attending the
 great event, one witness captured the scene:
 One fact . . . 
forcibly impressed me at the laying of the last nail.
 Two lengths of rails, fifty-six feet, had been omitted. The Union
 Pacific people brought up their pair of rails, and the work of
 placing them was done by Europeans. The Central Pacific people
 then laid their pair of rails, the labor being performed by Mon
golians. The foremen, in both cases, were Americans. Here, near
 the center of the American Continent, were the united efforts of
 representatives of the continents of Europe, Asia, and America
 —
 America directing and controlling.^^
 Released from employment after the completion of the trans
continental railroad, thousands of the Chinese laborers went to San
 Francisco, where their compatriots were already heavily involved in
 manufacturing. The formation of an urban Chinese community and
 the industrial development of the city paralleled each other. In 1860,
 only 2,719 Chinese resided in San Francisco, representing only 7.8
 percent of the Chinese population in California, compared to 70
 percent in the mining region. The Chinese saw San Francisco as a
 port of entry, a way station en route to the gold fields. Ten years
 later, the Chinese population in the city had zoomed to 12,022, a
 343 percent increase. Meanwhile, San Francisco had begun to develop
 as a locus of industry. In 1860, it had about two hundred manufac
turing firms employing some fifteen hundred workers. Ten years later,
 with nearly one fourth of California's Chinese population living there,
 San Francisco had over 12,000 laborers employed in industrial pro
duction and was the ninth-leading manufacturing city in the United
 States.^^
 During the 1860s, as Chinese ex-miners moved to San Francisco,
 they found limited employment opportunities in the Chinese ethnic
 economy, which was based on retail businesses, service, vice, and
 entertainment. But jobs were available elsewhere in the city, and the
 Chinese laborers quickly became part of the larger manufacturing
 economy. Chinese workers represented 46 percent of the labor force
 in the city's four key industries
 —boots and shoes, woolens, cigars
 and tobacco, and sewing. The San Francisco Morning Call reported
 in 1872 that nearly half the workingmen employed in the city's fac
tories were Chinese.^''
 The exodus of Chinese from the mining regions to San Francisco
8 8
 Strangers
 was timely. The Civil War had disrupted the flow of manufactured
 goods to the West, and capitalists in San Francisco were eagerly
 venturing into manufacturing. In this emerging economy, Chinese
 workers were concentrated in the low-wage industries. Cigar work
ers, for example, received only $287 in annual wages, and 92 percent
 of them were Chinese. By contrast, tailors and seamsters earned $588
 a year, and only 9 percent of them were Chinese. Chinese workers
 were also segregated within individual industries and paid less than
 white workers. In the garment industry, Chinese workers were em
ployed mainly in factories producing women's clothing and received
 an annual average wage of $364, compared to $597 paid to the
 mostly white workers in factories making men's clothing. In factories
 where the labor force was racially mixed, whites occupied the skilled
 positions and Chinese the menial ones. In these firms, white foremen
 directed the labor of Chinese crews. And where Chinese were assigned
 to the same tasks as whites, they were paid less than their white
 counterparts in an ethnically based differential-wage system: the
 work was equal but the wages were not.^^
 The significant role of Chinese labor in the industrial develop
ment of California was widely recognized. A. W. Loomis, in his article
 "How Our Chinamen Are Employed," counted thousands of Chinese
 factory operatives working in woolen mills, knitting mills, paper
 mills, powder mills, tanneries, shoe factories, and garment industries.
 In his essay Chinaman or White Man, Whichf the Reverend O. Gib
son argued that California's manufacturing interests could "not be
 maintained a single day" without the low rate of Chinese labor. In
 The Golden State, published in 1876, R. G. McClellan described the
 state's economic dependency on Chinese labor: "In mining, farming,
 in factories and in the labor generally of California the employment
 of the Chinese has been found most desirable; and much of the labor
 done by these people if performed by white men at higher wages
 could not be continued nor made possible."^^
 Meanwhile, in the rural regions, the Chinese were participating
 in the development of California's agriculture, which was turning
 from wheat to fruit acreage. "They were a vital factor," historian
 Carey McWilliams writes, "one is inclined to state the vital factor,
 in making the transition possible." Formerly farmers in the Pearl
 River Delta in Guangdong, the Chinese shared their agricultural ex
perience and knowledge. They "taught their overlords how to plant,
 cultivate, and harvest orchard and garden crops." Their contributions
 extended beyond California: Ah Bing in Oregon bred the famous
Gam Saan Haak
 89
 Bing cherry, and Lue Gim Gong in Florida developed the frost
resistant orange that bore his name and that gave the state its citrus
 industry.^^
 California was the locus of Chinese advances in agriculture. In
 the SanJoaquin and Sacramento River deltas, the Chinese constructed
 networks of irrigation channels and miles of levees, dikes, and ditches.
 Wielding shovels and working waist-deep in water, they drained the
 tule swamps and marshes and transformed them into agricultural
 lands. In 1869, a writer for the Overland Monthly acknowledged
 the change in the landscape the Chinese had wrought: "The ditches
 and dykes which at present protect only a few little patches here and
 there of the most fruitful soil that the sun shines on, may be made
 to perform a like service all over the Tulare swamps; and the de
scendants of the people who drained those almost limitless marshes
 on either side of their own swiftly-flowing Yellow River, and turned
 them into luxuriant fields, are able to do the same thing on the banks
 of the Sacramento and the San Joaquin." In Salinas, Chinese laborers
 dug six miles of ditches to drain the land, cutting the peat soil "with
 huge knife-like spades and pitching it out with steel forks and hooks."
 Their work boosted the value of the land from twenty-eight dollars
 an acre in 1875 to one hundred dollars an acre two years later.^^
 Landowners like Reuben Kercheval and P. J. 
van Loben Sels
 employed Chinese extensively for reclamation work. The workers
 were paid by the cubic yard of earth dug and used as filler for the
 levees; sometimes they resorted to tricks to increase their wages. To
 calculate how much his Chinese laborers should be paid, van Loben
 Sels would measure the size of the hole in the borrow pit every four
 or five days. But it was difficult to make accurate measurements due
 to the unevenness of the terrain. In order to show the depth of the
 hole they had dug and a record of their labor, the Chinese workers
 left a column of dirt in the middle of each pit to serve as a ruler.
 They tended, van Loben Sels noticed, to use the highest point of
 ground for their column before digging the hole. In addition, occa
sionally they gave their column an "operation" during the night,
 surgically cutting the column crosswise somewhere in the middle and
 inserting a new layer of dirt. In the morning, the pit appeared deeper,
 and the laborers quietly expected their boss to measure the hole and
 pay them accordingly. Whenever they were caught making nocturnal
 adjustments on their columns, they were fined.^-^
 The Chinese laborers wanted to be more than low-paid diggers:
 many wanted to be farmers themselves, working the land for their
90
 Strangers
 own profits. In Sacramento, Yuba, and San Joaquin counties, where
 concentrations of Chinese were large and where agricultural devel
opment was extensive, the number of Chinese truck gardeners jumped
 from 119 to 375 and the number of Chinese farmers from none to
 538 between 1860 and 1880. Tenant farming offered the Chinese a
 way to enter the business with minimal capital. They could sign
 agreements with white landowners. In exchange for the use of the
 land, equipment, and the marketing of crops, Chinese tenant farmers
 would raise fruit and vegetables and then divide the profits with the
 landowners. In 1873, for example, Chou Ying and Wee Ying signed
 a contract with George D. Roberts, leasing 551 acres in three tracts.
 The lease stipulated that they would pay eight dollars an acre for
 one of the tracts and give Roberts a fourth of the crops produced on
 the remaining two tracts or pay ten dollars an acre if they chose to
 grow Chinese vegetables on them. Many of the Chinese tenant
farming enterprises represented partnerships, forming companies
 known as yuen ("garden"). Collectively the partners were responsible
 for the lease and the operation of a farm. "We found the broad fields
 apportioned off and rented to separate companies of Chinamen who
 were working them upon shares 
— each little company having its
 own cabin," an observer reported in 1869. "Teams being furnished
 them, they do all the working, preparing the ground, seeding, tending
 the crop, and gathering the fruit, leaving nothing for the proprietor
 to do but to attend to the marketing, and to put into his own pocket
 half of the proceeds.""
 Most of the Chinese in agriculture were laborers, however. De
scribing how he had come to employ Chinese, a white farmer ex
plained that he had initially used white workers but found they would
 work for only a few days and then would quit. "I then went to a
 Chinaman," he said, "and told him I 
wanted to contract for binding
 and stacking wheat. . . . 
Several hundred of them came. We had one
 or two hundred acres that had been reaped, and needed putting up
 very badly; and the next morning it was all stacked. The Chinamen
 did the work that night. They did the work well and faithfully, and
 of course we abandoned white labor." In 1869, the Overland
 Monthly described the ubiquitous presence of Chinese laborers in
 California agriculture: "Visit a hop plantation in the picking season,
 and count its 50, 60, or 70 pickers in the garb of the eastern Asiatics,
 working steadily and noiselessly on from morning till night, gath
ering, curing and sacking the crop. . . . 
Go through the fields of straw
the vineyards and orchards, and you will learn that most
 berries . . .
Gam Saan Haak
 91
 of these fruits are gathered or boxed for market by this same people."
 The Chinese were also working in the vineyards and wineries of the
 Sonoma Valley. There Hungarian-immigrant Colonel Agoston
 Harszthy, who would come to be known as "the father of California
 viticulture," employed Chinese laborers to clear land and plant grape
vines on his Buena Vista Ranch. A visitor to Harszthy's Buena Vista
 winery in 1863 found Chinese working in the vineyards and also in
 the press house, "filling, corking, wiring, etc. Champagne bottles."
 He also saw Chinese workers blasting and excavating three wine
 cellars, each to be twenty-six feet wide, thirteen feet in height, and
 three hundred feet long.^'*
 In 1870, the Chinese constituted 18 percent of all farm laborers
 in California and were especially numerous in Sacramento (45 per
cent), Alameda (25 percent), and San Mateo (25 percent) counties.
 Ten years later, Chinese farm workers represented 86 percent of the
 agricultural labor force in Sacramento County, 85 percent in Yuba,
 67 percent in Solano, 55 percent in Santa Clara, 46 percent in Yolo,
 and 43 percent in Tehema. Polish journalist Henryk Sienkiewicz re
ported that the work in the hop fields and fruit orchards of northern
 California was done "almost exclusively by hired Chinese." In 1893,
 the Pacific Rural Press repeatedly acknowledged the contribution of
 the Chinese as laborers to California agriculture: "The Chinese are
 the mainstay of the orchardist and thus far it must be said, form the
 only supply of labor which he can depend on. They are expert pickers
 and packers of fruit. It is difficult to see how our annual fruit crop
 could be harvested and prepared for market without the China
man. ^^
 Employers of Chinese labor also realized they could pay espe
cially low wages. Chinese laborers were paid only thirty dollars a
 month 
— ten to twenty dollars less than the wages paid to white
 workers. The Chinese were trapped in a racially based dual-wage
 system. What enabled them to make ends meet was the fact that they
 had left their families in China where the cost of living was much
 lower than the United States and where their California earnings
 went further in covering family expenses. However, low wages also
 meant keeping their families in China even if they wished to have
 their wives and children join them in America.^^
 Chinese farm laborers did not always quietly accept what their
 employers offered them. In 1880, Chinese pickers in Santa Clara
 County went out on strike seeking increased compensation for the
 fruit they harvested. After the 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act had re
9 2
 Strangers
 duced the supply of Chinese farm labor, Chinese agricultural workers
 recognized the increased need for their labor and demanded higher
 wages. In 1900, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported: "Reheved,
 by the operation of the Exclusion Acts, in great measure from the
 pressing competition of his fellow-countrymen, the Chinese worker
 was not slow to take advantage of circumstances and demand in
 exchange for his labor a higher price, and, as time went on, even
 becoming Americanized to the extent of enforcing such demands in
 some cases through the medium of labor organization."^^
 But the racially divided farm-labor force generated ethnic an
tagonism, and Chinese became targets of white-labor resentment,
 especially during hard times. "White men and women who desire to
 earn a living," the Los Angeles Times reported on August 14, 1893,
 "have for some time been entering quiet protests against vineyardists
 and packers employing Chinese in preference to whites." Their pro
tests did not remain quiet as economic depression led to violent anti
Chinese riots by unemployed white workers throughout CaHfornia.
 From Ukiah to the Napa Valley to Fresno to Redlands, Chinese were
 beaten and shot by white workers; they were herded to railroad
 stations and loaded onto trains. The Chinese bitterly remember this
 violence and expulsion as the "driving out."^^
 "Ethnic antagonism" in the mines, factories, and fields rein
forced the movement of Chinese into self-employment 
— stores, res
taurants, and especially laundries. Chinese wash-houses were a
 common sight as early as the 1850s. A journalist visiting California
 in 1853 commented on the hardworking Chinese laundrymen: "What
 a truly industrious people they are! At work, cheerfully and briskly,
 at ten o'clock at night." By 1870, there were 2,899 Chinese laundry
 workers in California, 72 percent of all laborers in this occupation.
 Twenty years later their number had more than doubled to 6,400,
 or 69 percent of all laundry workers. During this period, the ratio
 of laundry workers to all workers in the Chinese population jumped
 from one out of every seventeen to one out of every twelve. Nearly
 half of Sacramento's 103 Chinese establishments listed in the Direc
tory of Chinese Business Houses in 1878 were laundries.^^
 The "Chinese laundryman" was an American phenomenon.
 "The Chinese laundryman does not learn his trade in China; there
 are no laundries in China," stated Lee Chew, who came to America
 in the early 1860s. "The women there do the washing in tubs and
 have no washboards or flat irons. All the Chinese laundrymen here
 [in America] were taught in the first place by American women just
Gam Saan Haak
 93
 as I 
was taught." In China, wrote Wong Chin Foo of New York in
 The Cosmopolitan in 1888, laundry work was a "woman's occu
pation," and men did not "step into it for fear of losing their social
 standing."^°
 But why in America did Chinese men enter this line of work?
 Unlike the retail or restaurant business, a laundry could be opened
 with a small capital outlay of seventy-five to two hundred dollars.
 The requirements were minimal: a stove, trough, dry-room, sleeping
 apartment, and sign. A Chinese laundryman also did not need to
 speak much English to operate his business. "In this sort of menial
 labor," said one, "I can get along speaking only 'yes' and 'no.' " And
 he could manage without knowing numbers. "Being illiterate, he
 could not write the numbers," another laundryman said describing
 a fellow operator. "He had a way and what a way! See, he would
 draw a circle as big as a half dollar coin to represent a half dollar,
 and a circle as big as a dime for a dime, and so on. When the customers
 came in to call for their laundry, they would catch on to the meaning
 of the circles and pay accordingly."^^
 But "Chinese laundrymen" were also "pushed" into their oc
cupation: laundry work was one of the few opportunities that were
 "open" to Chinese. "Men of other nationalities who are jealous of
 the Chinese have raised such a great outcry about Chinese cheap
 labor that they have shut him out of working on farms or in factories
 or building railroads or making streets or digging sewers," explained
 Lee Chew. "So he opens a laundry." Thus the "Chinese laundry"
 represented a retreat into self-employment from a narrowly restricted
 labor market. "You couldn't work in the cigar factories or the jute
 or woolen mills any more 
— all the Chinese had been driven out,"
 old Chinese men later remembered sadly. "About all they could be
 was laundrymen or vegetable peddlers then." Crowded into laundry
 work, one out of four employed Chinese males in the United States
 in 1900 was a laundryman.^^
 In a laundry there were usually two workers, one doing the
 washing and a second the ironing. Their work began about seven
 o'clock in the morning on Monday. "The man who irons does not
 start in till Tuesday," Lee Chew said, "as the clothes are not ready
 for him to begin until that time. So he has Sundays and Mondays as
 holidays. The man who does the washing finishes up on Friday night,
 and so he has Saturday and Sunday off. Each works only five days
 a week, but those are long days
 —from seven o'clock in the morning
 till midnight." They washed and ironed clothes for white miners and
94
 Strangers
 workers; frequently mistreated and harassed by their customers, they
 were forced to scream and curse in silence. "We had to put up with
 many insults and some frauds," complained Lee Chew, "as men
 would come in [to the laundry] and claim parcels that did not belong
 to them, saying they had lost their tickets, and would fight if they
 did not get what they asked for." In the mining country, Lee said,
 "we made plenty of money in gold dust, but had a hard time, for
 many of the miners were wild men who carried revolvers and after
 drinking would come into our place to shoot and steal shirts."^^
 While most of the Chinese resided in the West, they were also
 present elsewhere in the United States, including the South. The
 Chinese presence below the Mason-Dixon line developed within a
 different context: there they entered a biracial society composed of
 whites and blacks. The era of Reconstruction was a troublesome time
 for southern planters. "Emancipation has spoiled the negro and car
ried him away from the fields of agriculture," the editor of the Vicks
burg Times in Mississippi complained in 1869. "Our prosperity
 depends entirely upon the recovery of lost ground, and we therefore
 say let the Coolies come." That same year the southern planters'
 convention in Memphis announced that it was "desirable and nec
essary to look to the teeming population of Asia for assistance in the
 cultivation of our soil and the development of our industrial inter
ests." In his address to the convention, labor contractor Cornelius
 Koopmanshoop said his company had imported 30,000 Chinese la
borers into California, and offered to make them available in the
 South.34
 Planters quickly saw that the Chinese could be employed as
 models for black workers: hardworking and economical, the Chinese
 could be the "educators" of the former slaves. Louisiana and Mis
sissippi planters imported Chinese laborers and pitted them against
 black workers during the 1870s. They praised the workers from Asia
 for outproducing blacks in per-worker competition, and used the
 Chinese to "regulate" the "detestable system of black labor." A
 southern governor frankly explained: "Undoubtedly the underlying
 motive for this effort to bring in Chinese laborers was to punish the
 negro for having abandoned the control of his old master, and to
 regulate the conditions of his employment and the scale of wages to
 be paid him."^^
 In Mississippi a newspaper reported the successful introduction
 of Chinese laborers in 1870: "Messrs. Ferris and Estell, who are
Gam Saan Haak
 95
 cultivating on the Hughs place, near Prentiss, recently imported direct
 from Hong Kong, a lot of Chinese, sixteen in number, with whom
 as laborers, they are well pleased." Meanwhile in Louisiana, A. B.
 Merrill, owner of the Milloudon plantation outside of New Orleans,
 had a work force of 140 Chinese. A traveling correspondent described
 them in his vivid account:
 Mounting horses and spreading our umbrellas, we rode out a
 mile or more through the fields, past countless negroes and mule
teams ploughing, to the spot off by themselves where the pic
turesque heathens were hoeing cane. . . . 
Apart, in the middle of
 the field stood the imperturbable sinecurist who made a faint
 show of overseeing his countrymen ... Ah Sing. . . . 
The China
men went on with their work, hoeing the young cane, and doing
 it very carefully and precisely. Occasionally they would look up
 at us, but in a very stolid, careless way. Ah Sing approached and
 greeted us with a polite, "Hallo, how do?" On learning that we
 were well, he observed . . . , 
"Belly hot to-day."
 The wife of a Louisiana planter, in a letter to her daughter, described
 the Chinese workers as very good hands: "Yesterday was their Christ
mas day and they asked for half the day and had prepared themselves
 a good dinner." One day, she continued, one of the "Chinamen"
 had come into the yard and asked for her. "I went to the porch to
 see what he wanted. He took off his hat, got down on his knees, and
 bowed himself his head touching the ground four times very stately
 then got up. I thought he was drunk but it was a mark of respect he
 was showing."^^
 But the Chinese did not stay long on the plantations. As early
 as 1871, the New Orleans Times noted that the Chinese preferred
 to work in the small trades and industries in the city rather than the
 "plodding work of the plantations." By 1880, there were fifty Chinese
 in Mississippi, 133 in Arkansas, and 489 in Louisiana. Ninety-five
 of them lived in New Orleans, working as laundrymen, cigarmakers,
 shoemakers, cooks, and woodcarvers. By then the southern planters
 had overthrown Reconstruction; their political power over blacks
 restored, they quickly lost interest in Chinese labor.^^
 In 1870, while southern planters were experimenting with the
 introduction of Chinese laborers. New England businessmen were
 attentively watching a new development in a small town in Massa
chusetts. After a long ride on the recently completed transcontinental
 railroad, seventy-five Chinese had arrived in North Adams to work
96
 Strangers
 in one of its shoe factories. Hidden in the western mountains of the
 state, North Adams immediately became the subject of national
 interest.
 Between 1840 and 1870, North Adams had been transformed
 from an isolated rural village into an industrialized town. According
 to Harper's New Monthly Magazine, it was "one of the busiest little
 towns, humming and smoking with various industries, and nestled
 in the most picturesque and mountainous part of the valley of the
 Housatonic." The economic takeoff for this town occurred after the
 railroad had connected North Adams with Pittsfield in 1846 and
 opened new market possibilities. The impact was dramatic. Within
 thirty years, dwellings had increased from one hundred to more than
 four hundred, and the number of cotton looms had multiplied ten
 times, from twenty-two to more than two hundred. In 1869, the
 town's 4,000 workers produced $7 million worth of goods. Between
 1860 and 1870, the population nearly doubled from 6,924 to 12,090;
 almost one third of the population were European immigrants, par
ticularly Irish. North Adams had become the locus of thirty-eight
 factories
 —cotton mills, woolen mills, carriage manufactories, paper
 mills, and shoe factories.^^
 The owner of one of these busy factories, Calvin T. Sampson,
 personified the new manufacturing era of North Adams. A descen
dant of the original settlers of Plymouth Colony, he had established
 "A Model Shoe Factory." His factory produced more than 300,000
 pairs annually; the local press praised it as a successful business,
 "built up from small beginnings, by persistent energy, industry, econ
omy, and judgment." Actually, Sampson's success depended more
 on the use of machinery and the exploitation of labor. Three years
 after he had founded his factory in 1858, Sampson introduced the
 first of Well's pegging machines in shoe manufacturing. The new
 technology, a newspaper reported, increased both efficiency and prof
its: "Each machine performs the labor of six men, and effects a saving
 of two cents on every pair of shoes made." The machine also reduced
 workers from craftsmen to low-paid, unskilled tenders of the ma
chine. Sampson's increasing reliance on capital-intensive production
 reflected a general pattern in New England manufacturing.^^
 Workers in New England recognized the need to protect them
selves against labor-eliminating machines and low wages, and in 1867
 they organized the Secret Order of the Knights of St. Crispin. Within
 three years, the Crispins became the largest labor organization in the
 United States; 50,000 strong in membership, the union was especially
Gam Saan Haak
 97
 active in the shoemaking industries of Massachusetts. In 1870 the
 Crispins at Sampson's shoe factory in North Adams struck. They
 demanded higher wages, an eight-hour day, and access to the com
pany's account books in order to fix wages in accordance with profits.
 Sampson fired the striking workers. Unsuccessful in his effort to hire
 scabs from a nearby town, he decided to declare total war against
 the Crispins and drive a "wedge" into the conflict.'*^
 The "wedge" was a contingent of Chinese workers from San
 Francisco. Sampson had been considering the employment of Chinese
 labor: a year before the strike, the official organ of shoe manufac
turers. Hide and Leather Interest, had condemned the Crispins and
 urged employers to import Chinese workers as strikebreakers. Samp
son had also read a newspaper article on the effectiveness of Chinese
 labor in a San Francisco shoe factory. Shortly after the strike began
 at his factory, Sampson sent his superintendent to San Francisco,
 where he signed a contract with a Chinese labor supplier. According
 to the terms of the agreement, Sampson would pay the company a
 commission for the Chinese workers and transport them to Massa
chusetts; he would pay each worker twenty-three dollars a month
 for the first year and twenty-six dollars a month for the next two
 years, plus room and fuel. The workers would labor for three years
 and pay for their own clothing and food.
 The arrival of the seventy-five Chinese workers in North Adams
 on June 13 was a moment of great interest in the East. "A large and
 hostile crowd met them at the depot, hooted them, hustled them
 somewhat, and threw stones at them," The Nation reported. Thirty
 plainclothes policemen marched the newcomers to dormitories at
 Sampson's factory, where they were placed behind locked and
 guarded gates. A few days later, the Boston Commonwealth an
nounced: "They are with us! the 'Celestials' 
— with almond eyes,
 pigtails, rare industry, quick adaptation, high morality, and all 
—
 seventy-five of them 
— hard at work in the town of North Adams."
 The Springfield Republican predicted the "van of the invading army
 of Celestials" would free Sampson from "the cramping tyranny of
 that worst of American trades-unions, the 'Knights of St. Crispin.' "
 White workers as well as white employers watched as Sampson
 opened his factory again and began production.'*'
 They did not have to wait long for results. Within three months,
 the Chinese workers were producing more shoes than the same num
ber of white workers would have made. The success of Sampson's
 experiment was reported in the press. "The Chinese, and this espe
98
 Strangers
 dally annoys the Crispins," the editor of The Nation wrote, "show
 the usual quickness of their race in learning the process of their new
 business, and already do creditable hand and machine work." The
 editor of Harper's New Monthly Magazine visited Sampson's factory
 and described the new workers in felicitous terms: "They are gen
erally small. . . . 
[Ajbout sixty of the Chinese workmen [are] in the
 room, and there can be nowhere ... a busier, more orderly group of
 workmen." Writing for Scribner's Monthly, William Shanks agreed.
 The Chinese "labored regularly and constantly, losing no blue Mon
days on account of Sunday's dissipations nor wasting hours on idle
 holidays," he reported. "The quality of the work was found to be
 fully equal to that of the Crispins." Through the use of Chinese labor,
 Sampson had widened the margin of his profits: the saving in the
 cost of production for a week's work was $840, which totaled
 $40,000 a year. These figures inspired Shanks to calculate: "There
 are 115 establishments in the State, employing 5,415 men . . . 
capable
 of producing 7,942 cases of shoes per week. Under the Chinese system
 of Mr. Sampson, a saving of $69,594 per week, or say $3,500,000
 a year, would be effected, thus revolutionizing the trade.""^^
 In their struggle against Sampson, the striking Crispins tried to
 promote working-class solidarity by organizing a Chinese lodge of
 St. Crispin. Although little is 
known about this effort, it was probably
 conditioned by pragmatic concerns: the recruitment of the Chinese
 workers into the St. Crispin union would have undermined Sampson's
 "wedge." Watching the Crispin outreach to the Chinese, the editor
 of The Nation commented: "Chinese lodges and strikes will come
 in time when enough Chinamen are collected together in any given
 place; but the prospect appears not immediately flattering at North
 Adams." Based on practical self-interests rather than an ideological
 commitment to class solidarity, the Crispin attempt to unionize the
 Chinese workers quickly collapsed. At a meeting in Boston in July
 1870, white workers turned against the Chinese laborers, condemn
ing Sampson for reducing "American labor" to "the Chinese standard
 of rice and rats.'"*^
 Sampson's daring action had sobering effects on white workers
 in other North Adams shoe factories. Ten days after the arrival of
 Sampson's "Mongolian battery," Parker Brothers, Cady Brothers,
 Millard and Whitman, and E. R. and N. L. Millard forced laborers
 to return to work with a 10 percent wage reduction. Commenting
 frankly on the significance of Sampson's experiment of employing
 Chinese labor, a writer for Scribner's Monthly wrote: "If for no other
Gam Saan Haak
 99
 purpose than the breaking up of the incipient steps toward labor
 combinations and 'Trade Unions' . . . 
the advent of Chinese labor
 should be hailed with warm welcome." The "heathen Chinee," he
 concluded, could be the "final solution" to the labor problem in
 America.'*'*
 Sampson's experiment also impressed capitalists elsewhere in
 the East. Three months after the arrival of the Chinese in North
 Adams, James B. Hervey brought sixty-eight Chinese to Belleville,
 New Jersey, to work in his Passaic Steam Laundry. Like Sampson,
 with whom he had consulted, Hervey had secured them through a
 labor supplier in San Francisco. Eventually he employed three
 hundred Chinese workers and used them to meet his labor needs and
 counter strikes by Irish workers. Meanwhile, in Beaver Falls, Penn
sylvania, the Beaver Falls Cutlery Company had also begun hiring
 Chinese laborers to help discipline striking white workers. Within a
 year, the cutlery company increased the number of its Chinese work
ers from seventy to 190.
 The promise of Chinese labor had been proven in the West and
 its potential had been demonstrated in the South and the East. But,
 from the very beginning, the Chinese presence represented a dilemma.
 "What we shall do with them is not quite clear yet," remarked Samuel
 Bowles in 1869 in his book Our New West. "How they are to rank,
 socially, civilly, and politically, among us is one of the nuts for our
 social science students to crack,
 —if they can." And what would be
 the future of white workers in this country as its industrial devel
opment depended more and more on Chinese labor?'*^
 The Heathen Chinee
 One answer to both questions was a proposal to reduce the Chinese
 into a permanently degraded caste-labor force: they would be in effect
 a unique, transnational industrial reserve army of migrant laborers
 forced to be foreigners forever. They would be what sociologist Rob
ert Blauner has termed an "internal colony," a racially subordinated
 group. Unlike white immigrants such as the Irish, Italians, and Poles,
 the Chinese would be a politically proscribed group. Part ofAmerica's
 process of production, they would not be allowed to become part of
 her body politic. "I do not believe they are going to remain here long
 enough to become good citizens," Central Pacific official Charles
 Crocker told a legislative committee, "and I 
would not admit them
 to citizenship,'"*^
 For Crocker and other employers of Chinese labor, the Chinese
I oo
 Strangers
 would be allowed to enter and work temporarily, then return to their
 homeland while others would come here as replacements. The
 Chinese would be used to service the labor needs of America's in
dustry without threatening the racial homogeneity of the country's
 citizenry. The migrant workers would be inducted into a labor-supply
 process that would move labor between China and the United States
 in a circular pattern. Anti-Chinese laws, economic exploitation, and
 racial antagonism would assist in this process, compelling the Chinese
 to leave America after a limited period of employment. They would
 remain "strangers."'*'^
 But what enabled capitalists like Crocker to degrade the Chinese
 into a subservient caste of laborers was a particular ideology. His
torically, whites generally perceived America as a racially homoge
neous society and Americans as white. Long before the Chinese
 arrived, they had already been predetermined for exclusion by this
 set of ideas; the Chinese future in America could be seen in the black
 and Indian past. The entrance of a new nonwhite group provided an
 occasion for the reaffirmation of the "errand into the wilderness" in
 an industrializing America that would soon no longer have a frontier.
 Not surprisingly, when the Chinese began coming to California
 they almost immediately provoked widespread concerns about the
 relationship between race and national identity. One of the first
 Americans to address the issue was Hinton Helper of North Carolina.
 A critic of slavery, he urged his fellow white farmers in the South to
 overthrow the planter class and remove blacks from the country.
 While visiting California in 1851, Helper had been surprised and
 disturbed to find so many Chinese working and living in the new
 state. "Certain it is," he predicted in his book The Land of Gold,
 pubhshed in 1855, "that the greater the diversity of colors and qual
ities of men, the greater will be the strife and conflict of feeling."
 Helper insisted that America should be a homogeneous white society.
 Comparing the entry of the Chinese in the West to the existence of
 blacks in the East, he protested: "Our population was already too
 heterogeneous before the Chinese came. I should not wonder at all,
 if the copper of the Pacific yet becomes as great a subject of discord
 and dissension as the ebony of the Atlantic.'"*^
 Helper's comparison between the two groups prefigured a stereo
typing process: the Chinese were associated with blacks in the
 racial imagination of white society. Shortly after the Civil War, the
 New York Times issued a warning that depicted the newly freed
 blacks and the newly arrived Chinese as threats to the American
Gam Saan Haak
 South . . .
 loi
 political system: "We have four millions of degraded negroes in the
 and if there were to be a flood-tide of Chinese popula
tion
 —apopulation befouled with all the social vices, with no knowl
edge or appreciation of free institutions or constitutional liberty, with
 heathenish souls and heathenish propensities ... we should be pre
pared to bid farewell to republicanism." The San Francisco Chronicle
 compared the Chinese "coolie" to the black slave, and condemned
 both as antagonistic to free labor: "When the coolie arrives here he
 is as rigidly under the control of the contractor who brought him as
 ever an African slave was under his master in South Carolina or
 Louisiana." Like blacks, the Chinese were viewed as antagonistic to
 republican and free-labor society.'^^
 The Chinese migrants found that racial qualities previously as
signed to blacks quickly became "Chinese" characteristics. Calling
 for Chinese exclusion, the San Francisco Alta warned: "Every reason
 that exists against the toleration of free blacks in Illinois may be
 argued against that of the Chinese here." White workers referred to
 the Chinese as "nagurs," and a magazine cartoon depicted the
 Chinese as a bloodsucking vampire with slanted eyes, a pigtail, dark
 skin, and thick lips. Like blacks, the Chinese were described as
 heathen, morally inferior, savage, childlike, and lustful. Chinese
 women were condemned as a "depraved class," and their depravity
 was associated with their physical appearance, which seemed to show
 "but a slight removal from the African race." Chinese men were seen
 as sensuous creatures, especially interested in white women. A writer
 for the New York Times reported that he noticed "a handsome but
 squalidly dressed young white girl" in an opium den and inquired
 about her. The owner replied: "Oh, hard time in New York. Young
 girl hungry. Plenty come here. Chinaman always have something to
 eat, and he like young white girl. He! He!"^^
 Like blacks, the Chinese were viewed as threats to white racial
 purity. As early as 1661, Maryland had enacted the first anti
miscegenation law prohibiting marriage between whites and blacks,
 and by the nineteenth century, laws against miscegenation existed in
 most states. But the California law was designed to include the
 Chinese. At the state's constitutional convention of 1878, John F.
 Miller warned: "Were the Chinese to amalgamate at all with our
 people, it would be the lowest, most vile and degraded of our race,
 and the result of that amalgamation would be a hybrid of the most
 despicable, a mongrel of the most detestable that has ever afflicted
 the earth." Two years later, California lawmakers enacted legislation
I02
 Strangers
 to prohibit the issuance of a license authorizing the marriage of a
 white person with a "negro, mulatto, or Mongolian."^^
 In the white imagination, the Chinese were also sometimes re
lated to Indians. The editor of the California Marin Journal declared
 that the winning of the West from the "red man" would be in vain,
 if whites were now to surrender the conquered land to a "horde of
 Chinese." The association between Indians and Chinese suggested
 one way to solve the "Chinese Problem." "We do not let the Indian
 stand in the way of civilization," stated former Governor Horatio
 Seymour of New York, "so why let the Chinese barbarian?" In his
 letter published in the New York Times, Seymour continued: "Today
 we are dividing the lands of the native Indians into states, counties,
 and townships. We are driving off from their property the game upon
 which they live, by railroads. We tell them plainly, they must give
 up their homes and property, and live upon corners of their own
 territories, because they are in the way of our civilization. If we can
 do this, then we can keep away another form of barbarism which
 has no right to be here." A U.S. senator from Alabama "likened"
 the Chinese to the Indians, "inferior" socially and subject to federal
 government control. The government, he argued, should do to the
 Chinese what it had already done to the Indians 
— put them on
 reservations.^^
 What all three groups 
— blacks, Indians, and Chinese 
— shared
 seemed singularly striking: they were all nonwhite. This perception
 went beyond a matter of prejudice. In the 1854 California Supreme
 Court decision of People v. Hall, it became a basis for public policy.
 A year before, George W. Hall and two others were tried for mur
dering Ling Sing. During the trial, one Caucasian and three Chinese
 witnesses testified for the prosecution. After the jury had returned a
 guilty verdict, the judge sentenced Hall to be hanged. Hall's lawyer
 then appealed the verdict, arguing that the Chinese witnesses should
 not have been permitted to testify against Hall. An existing California
 statute provided that "no black or mulatto person, or Indian, shall
 be permitted to give evidence in favor of, or against, any white
 person," and the question was whether this restriction included the
 Chinese. In its review, the California Supreme Court reversed Hall's
 conviction, declaring that the words "Indian, Negro, Black, and
 White" were "generic terms, designating races," and that therefore
 "Chinese and other people not white" could not testify against whites.^^
 In 1859, the California superintendent of education applied the
f
 103
 Gam Saan Haak
 color line to the public schools. The integration of blacks, Indians,
 and Chinese would lead to the ruin of the schools, the superintendent
 warned. "The great mass of our citizens will not associate on terms
 of equality with these inferior races; nor will they consent that their
 children should do so." A year later, the California legislature es
tablished segregated schools, authorizing school officials to withhold
 public funds from any school that admitted the proscribed groups.
 In 1879 President Rutherford Hayes placed the "Chinese Problem"
 within the broad context of race in American society. The "present
 Chinese invasion," he argued, was "pernicious and should be dis
couraged. Our experience in dealing with the weaker races 
— the
 Negroes and Indians ...
 —is not encouraging. ... I 
would consider
 with favor any suitable measures to discourage the Chinese from
 coming to our shores."^'*
 In the exclusionist imagination, however, the "strangers" from
 Asia seemed to pose a greater threat than did blacks and Indians.
 Unlike blacks, the Chinese were seen as intelligent and competitive;
 unlike Indians, they represented an increasing rather than a decreas
ing population. As an industrial army of aliens from the East, they
 threatened to displace and force white workers into poverty. During
 the 1870s, white workers expressed their fear of the Chinese in a
 popular song:
 O workingmen dear, and did you hear
 The news that's goin' around
 Another China steamer
 Has been landed here in town.
 Today I read the papers,
 And it grieved my heart full sore
 To see upon the title page,
 "O, just 'Twelve Hundred Morel' "
 O, California's coming down.
 As you can plainly see.
 They are hiring all the Chinamen
 and discharging you and me;
 But strife will be in every town
 Throughout the Pacific shore.
 And the cry of old and young shall be,
 "O, damn, 'Twelve Hundred More.' "^^
104
 Strangers
 Similarly, in the play "The Chinese Must Go'' by Henry Grimm
 of San Francisco, the racial anxieties of white workers were acted
 out on the stage. Two Chinese characters conspire to destroy white
 labor:
 Ah Coy. By and by white man catchee no money; Chinaman
 catchee heap money; Chinaman workee cheap, plenty work;
 white man workee dear, no work — sabee?
 Sam Gin. Me heep sabee.
 Ah Coy. White man damn fools; keep wifee and children 
— cost
 plenty money; Chinaman no wifee, no children, save plenty
 money. By and by, no more white workingmen in California;
 all Chinamen 
— sabee?^^
 White workers have reason to be alarmed, for the sinister Chinese
 are planning to take away their jobs and even their country. One of
 the characters, Frank B., says to a friend:
 You wasted your dimes in a candy store, I see. Let me tell you,
 if I take a four-bit piece, buy meat and flour with it, digest it, it
 turns into blood; therefore, money is blood. Now, what would
 you think of a man who would allow a lot of parasites to suck
 every day a certain quantity of blood out of his body, when he
 knows that his whole constitution is endangered by this sucking
 process; mustn't he be either an idiot or intend self-destruction?
 And suppose those Chinese parasites should suck as much blood
 out of every State in the Union, destroying Uncle Sam's sinews
 and muscles, how many years do you think it would take to put
 him in his grave?^"^
 The most powerful articulation of anti-Chinese fears and anx
ieties was presented by Bret Harte in a poem, "The Heathen Chinee."
 Published in the Overland Monthly in 1870, the poem became in
stantly and immensely popular as newspaper after newspaper across
 the country reprinted it and as the phrase "heathen Chinee" became
 a household word in white America. The New York Globe had to
 publish Harte's poem twice in order to satisfy the demands of its
 readership. "Certainly nothing has been printed of late, if ever, which
 has run through the newspapers of this country as this has," the
 editor of the Springfield Republican observed in his review of the
 poem. "Part of this effect is owing to the temporary excitement of
 the public about the Chinese question,
 —but the combination of
 delicate humor, and force of expression, both plain and grotesque,
Gam Saan Haak
 105
 seen in these verses would have made them famous at any time."^^
 The pubHcation of Harte's poem was timely. The transconti
nental railroad had been completed in 1869, and thousands of
 Chinese, released from railroad employment, were moving into the
 cities and becoming very visible. The railroad made transportation
 to California both inexpensive and easy for thousands of white work
ers from the East, and it opened California markets to competition
 from eastern manufacturers. White workers in California increasingly
 saw the Chinese as competitors in the job market. By the end of
 1870, there were three workers
 —two white and one Chinese 
— for
 every job in San Francisco. But fear of Chinese labor competition
 was no longer confined to the West, for Chinese laborers had begun
 working in a New England shoe factory three months before Harte's
 poem reverberated in the print media. The poem helped to crystallize
 and focus anti-Chinese anxieties and paranoia, its rhymes evoking
 from white America a nervous chuckle.
 "The Heathen Chinee" describes a card game between Ah Sin
 and William Nye. Determined to beat his opponent, Nye has cards
 stuffed up his sleeves; yet, even with his extra cards, the Irishman
 loses time and again. Ah Sin has a "childlike" smile, but the reader
 learns
 That for ways that are dark
 And for tricks that are vain
 The heathen Chinee is peculiar.
 Suddenly, Nye catches Ah Sin cheating. As he beats Ah Sin with his
 fists, he notices cards hidden in Ah Sin's sleeves falling to the floor
 around them. And Nye shouts: "We are ruined by Chinese cheap
 labour."^^
 Clearly, the poem is ambiguous. While it negatively stereotypes
 the Chinese, it portrays Nye as a cheater too. Yet, what most im
pressed Harte's readers, feeling amused and anxious at once, was the
 "heathen Chinee's" "peculiar" ways, his deceptiveness and slyness,
 his "sin"-fulness, and his ability to "ruin" white labor in America.
 Harte regarded himself as a friend of the Chinese and actually re
gretted the racist effect of his poem. His feeling of guilt led him to
 rem.ark privately to a friend: "Perhaps you can have little respect for
 a poet who wrote such trash as the Heathen Chinee.^'^^
 Yet, after the publication of the poem, Harte continued to write
 about the Chinese in America. While he protested against the injus
tices committed against them, he perpetuated anti-Chinese racism
io6
 Strangers
 through his images of them as "heathens" and threats to white Amer
ica. This contradiction may be found in two of Harte's short stories 
—
 "Wan Lee, the Pagan" and "See Yup."
 In "Wan Lee, the Pagan," the narrator Harte begins by teUing
 the readers about his visit to the Chinese merchant Hop Sing, a
 "grave, decorous, handsome gentleman" with a pigtail. Harte reports
 that Hop Sing's warehouse has a "deliciously commingled mysterious
 foreign odor." There he is offered tea and a snack of sweetmeats
 from a "mysterious jar" that looks as if it might contain "a preserved
 mouse."
 The principal character in the story is 
Wan Lee, a twelve-year
old boy living with Hop Sing in San Francisco. Wan Lee is quite
 impish, good at "imitation" and "superstitious," carrying around his
 neck "a hideous little porcelain god." The boy "knows but little of
 Confucius, and absolutely nothing of Mencius," says Hop Sing.
 "Owing to the negligence of his father, he associated, perhaps too
 much with American children." Partially acculturated. Wan Lee falls
 in love with a white girl.
 Their relationship is a touching one. "Bright," "cheery," and
 "innocent," the white girl awakens "a depth in the boy's nature that
 hitherto had been unsuspected." When she goes to school. Wan Lee
 walks behind her, carrying her books and defending himself against
 the racist attacks of "Caucasian Christian" boys. He also makes
 beautiful presents for her, and she reciprocates. She reads and sings
 to him; she teaches him "a thousand little prettinesses and refinements
 only known to girls"; gives him a "yellow" ribbon for his pigtail, as
 best suiting his "complexion"; shows him wherein he is "original
 and valuable"; and takes him to Sunday school with her, against the
 "precedents" of the school. "Small-womanlike," she triumphs. They
 get along very well together
 —"this little Christian girl, with her
 shining cross hanging around her plump, white, little neck, and this
 dark little Pagan, with his hideous porcelain god hidden away in his
 blouse." But tragedy awaits them. At the end of the story, Wan Lee
 is killed during two days of anti-Chinese mob violence in San Fran
cisco
 —"two days when a mob of her citizens set upon and killed
 unarmed, defenseless foreigners, because they were foreigners and of
 another race, religion, and color, and worked for what wages they
 could get."
 Despite his condemnation of the "Christian" murderers of Wan
 Lee, Harte had presented an ambiguous message to white America.
 The Chinese, in the characters of Hop Sing and Wan Lee, were
Gam Saan Haak
 107
 described as unfortunate victims of white working-class hatred and
 cruel racism; yet they were also depicted as mice-eaters, "pagan,"
 "dark," "impish," "superstitious," "yellow," and subversive to white
 labor and white racial purity.^^
 Like "Wan Lee, the Pagan," the story of See Yup was intended
 to express moral disapproval of anti-Chinese racism. Yet, again
 Harte's writing warred against itself. In this story, See Yup is a
 laundryman in a small mining town; he is a "heathen" and exudes
 a "peculiar odor"
 —half ginger, half opium — called the "Chinese
 smell." See Yup is victimized by the white miners. "Subject to the
 persecutions of the more ignorant and brutal," he is "always" a
 "source of amusement" to whites. White boys would tie his pigtails
 to a window, and white miners would take their dirty clothes to his
 laundry and pick up their cleaned clothes without paying for them.
 The unhappy target of racial abuse and exploitation. See Yup knows
 he can find no justice or recourse in the courts.
 One Saturday, See Yup enters the Wells Fargo office and asks
 the clerk to send a bag of gold dust valued at $500 to San Francisco.
 He had gathered the gold, it seems, while working the tailings of an
 abandoned mine. He has gold sent to San Francisco three Saturdays
 in a row, and the clerk at the Wells Fargo office notices See Yup's
 good fortune and spreads the news that See Yup has made a strike.
 The white miners then organize themselves into a committee and visit
 See Yup's mine. In two hours, they witness See Yup and his fellow
 Chinese miners extract twenty dollars worth of gold dust from the
 sand and gravel. The work is being performed in the "stupidest,
 clumsiest, yet patient Chinese way." And the white miners exclaim:
 "What might not white men do with better appointed machinery!"
 The miners form a syndicate and force See Yup to sell his mine for
 a meager $20,000. After he yields to the miners. See Yup leaves town.
 The white miners take over operations, bringing in "new machinery"
 to assist them. Some gold is taken in the first week, but nothing is
 found the next week. Suspicious, the miners learn what had hap
pened. See Yup had borrowed $500 in gold dust from a friend, openly
 sent the gold to San Francisco, and had Chinese runners secretly
 return it to him so he could send it out again. After he had been
 coerced into selling his mine, he had salted the mine with some gold
 dust and disappeared with the money his oppressors had forced him
 to accept.
 Harte's point again was not entirely clear. The white miners
 certainly got what they deserved. But See Yup was a trickster, and
io8
 Strangers
 his deception reflected a perceived Chinese propensity to be clan
destine and clannish. "We knew," Harte had his narrator remark in
 the story, "that the Chinese themselves possessed some means of
 secretly and quickly communicating with one another." So armed.
 See Yup turned out to be a formidable and dangerous threat to white
 men in America.^^
 What Harte described in his literary efforts to entertain and
 amuse became the focus of serious scholarly reflections for Henry
 George. Pondering the "Chinese question," George developed a deep
 and disturbing analysis of American capitalism. The issue had first
 confronted him as a young man in California during the 1850s: he
 had been sitting in the gallery of the American Theatre in San Fran
cisco on New Year's Eve when suddenly the curtain fell and the
 people in the audience sprang to their feet. On the curtain they saw
 depicted "what was then a dream of the far future 
— the overland
 train coming into San Francisco." But the celebration caused George
 to wonder whether the railroad would benefit workers, and he re
membered what a miner had said to him during a discussion on the
 Chinese presence in the gold fields of California. What harm were
 the Chinese doing, he had asked, if they were only working the cheap
 diggings? "No harm now," the old miner replied, "but wages will
 not always be as high as they are today in California. As the country
 grows, as people come in, wages will go down, and some day or
 other white men will be glad to get those diggings that the Chinamen
 are now working."^^
 The miner's answer led George to address the problem of pro
gress and poverty in America. The railroad, depicted there on the
 curtain before him, seemed to symbolize the paradox. Increasingly
 George focused on the Chinese as a clue to understanding the con
tradiction emerging in industrial America. The development of his
 analysis was not entirely abstract. His diary contains several refer
ences to the "Chinaman" and his visits to the "Chinese quarter." On
 February 21, 1865, he recorded: "Worked for Ike. Did two cards
 for $1. ... In evening had row with Chinaman. Foolish." The next
 day, he wrote: "Hand very sore. Did not go down till late. Went to
 work in 'Bulletin' at 12. Got $3. Went to library in evening. Thinking
 of economy."^'*
 Three years later, George expounded his initial critique of in
dustrial capitalism in an essay on "What the Railroad Will Bring
 Us." He predicted that the transcontinental railroad would enable
 Americans to convert the wilderness into a "populous empire." But
 I
Gam Saan Haak
 109
 it would also bring population into the West and boost land values.
 While the owners of land would become wealthy, the workers would
 be forced to compete for low wages. Class divisions would deepen
 within white society. Much of this transformation, George noted,
 could already be seen in the mining business, where the "honest
 miner" had passed away, succeeded by the "millowner" with his
 "Chinese" work force.^^
 A year later, George presented his analysis of the "Chinese
 Problem" in an article published in the New York Tribune. The
 advances in transportation by steamship had made possible the mass
 migration of Chinese to the United States. The Chinese were crowding
 into the labor market of California and becoming the new "peons"
 of the captains of industry. "The superintendents of the cotton and
 woolen mills on the Pacific prefer the Chinese to the other opera
tives," George noted, "and in the same terms the railroad people
 speak of their Chinese graders, saying they are steadier, work longer,
 require less watching, and do not get up strikes or go on drunks."
 Comparing the Chinese workers of modern industrial America to the
 black slaves of antebellum America, George warned that the Chinese
 constituted a more serious peril. Blacks, when brought to this coun
try, were "simple barbarians with nothing to unlearn"; they were
 "docile" and capable of accepting white ways. But the Chinese mi
grants could not be "assimilated." They had "habits of thought ren
dered permanent by being stamped upon countless generations."
 Strangers in America, the yellow workers were a "population born
 in China, reared in China, expecting to return to China, Uving while
 here in a little China of its own, and without the slightest attachment
 to the country
 —utter heathens, treacherous, sensual, cowardly and
 cruel."^^
 Many of the issues intellectually agitating George in his analysis
 of the "Chinese question"
 —land, labor, and industrialization 
— led
 directly to the writing of his most important book. Progress and
 Poverty: An Inquiry into the Cause ofIndustrial Depressions and of
 Increase of Want with Increase of Wealth. The Remedy. Published
 in 1879, the book was immediately thrust into the national debate
 on Chinese immigration restriction. In fact, George's publisher de
liberately issued a "cheap edition," predicting the book would have
 an "enormous" sale due to its timely connection to the demand for
 Chinese exclusion.^''
 Progress and Poverty represented the culmination of ten years
 of research and reflection
 —George's final analysis of the problem
no
 Strangers
 of poverty in America and his remedy. The paradox, he argued, was
 the existence of poverty amid material progress. The cause of this
 contradiction was the discrepancy between wages and the cost of
 Hving, Wages constantly tended to remain minimal and to provide
 but a bare living. While the productive power of labor increased,
 rents increased faster and thus forced down wages. In order to ex
tirpate poverty, George continued, land would have to be placed
 under "common" ownership. This could be accomplished through
 a "single tax" on all "unearned increment" 
— the increased value of
 land generated from the increase of population and productivity. The
 public domain and the availability of land in America had been the
 "transmuting force," which had turned the "thriftless, unambitious
 European peasant into the self-reliant Western farmer." But the fron
tier was gone, for the American advance had reached the Pacific
 Ocean. Unemployment had become a problem: "It is because men
 cannot find employment in the country that there are so many un
employed in the city." Within the context of this progress and pov
erty, the Chinese immigrants represented a disturbing development:
 they were peculiar aliens in America. While whites had progressed
 from a savage state to that of nineteenth-century civilization, the
 Chinese had stood still. Unlike the European peasant, the Chinese
 immigrant could not be transformed into an American. As a result
 of the "Chinese environment," George concluded, the immigrants
 from the East remained "Chinese" and were "unassimilable."^^
 Three years after the publication of Progress and Poverty, Con
gress prohibited the immigration of Chinese laborers. During the
 congressional debate on the proposed legislation, the editor of The
 Nation noted that the law would appeal to white workers, particu
larly the "hard-working" "Bill Nyes" of the Pacific Coast. But ac
tually the action of Congress reflected a broader concern and anxiety
 than simply the Chinese presence. In fact there was very little objective
 basis for the Congress to be worried about Chinese immigrants as a
 threat to white labor. The Chinese constituted a mere .002 percent
 of the U.S. population in 1880. Behind the exclusion act were fears
 and forces that had little or no relationship to the Chinese. Congress
 was responding to the stressful reality of class tensions and conflict
 within white society during an era of economic crisis. George had
 identified the problem in his book: something had gone wrong and
 an age of opportunity seemed to be coming to an end. America had
 been a place where an abundance of land and jobs had always been
Gam Saan Haak
 III
 available. The problem for employers had always been the need for
 more labor. But suddenly, during the closing decades of the nine
teenth century, society experienced what historian John A. Garraty
 called "the discovery of unemployment." Unemployment had become
 a national crisis. The enormous expansions of the economy were
 followed by intense and painful contractions, which in turn generated
 social convulsions such as the violent Railroad Strike of 1877.^^
 Within this context of economic crisis and social strife. Congress
 voted to make it unlawful for Chinese laborers to enter the United
 States for the next ten years and denied naturalized citizenship to the
 Chinese already here. Support for the law was overwhelming. The
 House vote was 201 yeas, thirty-seven nays, and fifty-one absent.
 While congressmen from the West and South gave it unanimous
 support, a large majority from the East (fifty-three out of seventy
seven) and the Midwest (fifty-nine out of seventy-two) also voted for
 the prohibition. Significantly, support for the anti-Chinese legislation
 was national, coming not only from the western states but also from
 states where there were few or no Chinese. In the debate, congressmen
 revealed fears that were much deeper than race. The exclusionists
 warned that the presence of an "industrial army of Asiatic laborers"
 was exacerbating the class conflict between white labor and white
 capital. White workers had been "forced to the wall" by Chinese
 labor. The struggle between labor unions and the industrial "nabobs"
 and "grandees" was erupting into "disorder, strikes, riot and blood
shed" in the industrial cities of America. Congressmen still remem
bered the armed clashes between troops and striking railroad workers
 in 1877, and were aware of the labor unrest that would shortly erupt
 in Chicago's Haymarket Riot of 1886 and the Homestead and Pull
man strikes of the 1890s. "The gate," exclusionists in Congress de
clared, "must be closed." The Chinese Exclusion Act was in actuality
 symptomatic of a larger conflict between white labor and white cap
ital: removal of the Chinese was designed not only to defuse an issue
 agitating white workers but also to alleviate class tensions within
 white society.^°
 Aimed initially at Chinese "laborers," the prohibition was
 broadened in 1888 to include "all persons of the Chinese race";
 exemptions were provided for Chinese officials, teachers, students,
 tourists, and merchants. Renewed in 1892, the Chinese Exclusion
 Act was extended indefinitely in 1902. The exclusionist legislation
 —from 105,465 in
 led to a sharp decline in the Chinese population
Ill
 Strangers
 1880 to 89,863 in 1900 to 61,639 in 1920. For Congress, one way
 to solve the "Chinese problem" was to legislate the disappearance
 of the Chinese presence in America7^
 But how was exclusion viewed through the eyes of the Chinese
 "strangers"?
 Letters from the "Colony"
 In a letter to a white friend written in the 1850s, a Chinese migrant
 asked, Why did whites in "your country" treat the Chinese with
 "contempt"? Many Chinese had been killed by "lawless wretches,"
 and Chinese witnesses of the crimes had not been allowed to testify
 in courts. The "first root" of this problem was the degradation of
 the Chinese as "a race" in America. "Now, what injury have we
 Chinese done to your honorable people," he angrily questioned, "that
 they should thus turn upon us and make us drink the cup of wrong
 even to its last poisonous dregs?"''^
 To the Chinese, white prejudice and discrimination were both
 uninformed and insulting. In an open letter to Governor John Bigler,
 published in the Daily Alta California in 1852, Norman Asing chas
tised the governor for his inflammatory and anti-Chinese message to
 the legislature:
 The effect of your late message has been thus far to prejudice
 the public mind against my people, to enable those who wait
 the opportunity to hunt them down, and rob them of the rewards
 of their toil. . . . 
We would beg to remind you that when your
 nation was a wilderness, and the nation from which you sprung
 barbarous, we exercised most of the arts and virtues of civilized
 life; that we are possessed of a language and a literature, and
 that men skilled in science and the arts are numerous among us;
 that the productions of our manufactories, our sail, and work
shops, form no small commerce of the world. . . . 
We are not
 the degraded race you would make us.
 Three years later, speaking for the Chinese merchants of San Fran
cisco, Lai Chun-Chuen chided white Americans for viewing the
 Chinese as "the same as Indians and Negroes." The Indians knew
 "nothing about the relations of society," wearing neither clothes nor
 shoes and living in caves. By contrast, the Chinese had their philos
ophers, thousands of years of transmitted wisdom, the civil govern
ment of successive dynasties of emperors, and a wealthy civilization.
 "Can it be possible that we are classed as equals with this uncivilized
Gam Saan Haak
 113
 race of men? . . . 
We doubt whether such be the decision of enlight
ened intelligence."''^
 The Chinese Six Companies, the most important association
 representing the Chinese community to the larger society, challenged
 the discriminatory laws and protested against anti-Chinese harass
ment and violence. In a letter to President Ulysses Grant sent in 1876,
 the Chinese Six Companies declared that the United States had always
 welcomed emigration from all countries to its shores and that the
 Chinese had responded by crossing the ocean to this land. Noting
 the contributions of the Chinese here, the Chinese Six Companies
 asked: "Are the railroads built by Chinese labor no benefit to the
 country? Are the manufacturing establishments, largely worked by
 Chinese, no benefit to this country? Do not the results of the daily
 toil of a hundred thousand men increase the riches of this country?"
 A year later, the Chinese Six Companies denounced the mob violence
 committed against the Chinese in "this Christian civilization.'''' "We
 are not ignorant that self-defence is the common right of all men,"
 the organization warned in a letter to the mayor of San Francisco.
 "Should a riotous attack be made upon the Chinese quarter, we
 should have neither the power nor disposition to restrain our country
men from defending themselves to the last extremity and selling their
 lives as dearly as possible."'''*
 The Chinese protest went beyond words. Time and again, they
 took into court their struggle for civil rights. Insisting on the right
 of Chinese immigrants to become citizens, Chan Yong applied for
 citizenship in San Francisco's federal district court in 1855. Chan
 Yong, the local newspapers noted, was more "white" in appearance
 than most Chinese, but the court denied him citizenship, ruling that
 the 1790 Naturalization Law restricted citizenship to "whites" only
 and that the Chinese were not "white." Seven years later. Ling Sing
 sued the San Francisco tax collector, challenging the $2.50 capitation
 tax levied on Chinese. In Ling Sing v. Washburn, the California
 Supreme Court ruled that while the Chinese could be taxed as other
 residents, they could not be set apart as special subjects of taxation.
 Significantly, in this case. Ling Sing successfully invalidated a state
 law on the grounds that it violated the U.S. Constitution.^^
 The Ling Sing decision underscored the need for federal pro
tection of civil rights for Chinese. During the 1868 negotiations be
tween the United States and China regarding a treaty between the
 two countries, the Chinese Six Companies lobbied for the inclusion
 of provisions to protect the Chinese immigrant. They contacted Dan
114
 Strangers
 iel Cleveland, a San Francisco lawyer and adviser to the federal of
ficials involved in the treaty negotiations, and explained to him that
 federal legislation was greatly needed to "free" the Chinese in the
 United States from "wrongs" and protect Chinese lives and property.
 Federal protection of Chinese property would also encourage Chinese
 investments in this country, and would promote American trade with
 China. The outcome of the negotiations was a major victory for the
 Chinese Six Companies. The 1868 Burlingame Treaty recognized the
 "free migration and emigration" of the Chinese to the United States
 as visitors, traders or "permanent residents," and the rights of
 Chinese in the United States to "enjoy the same privileges, immu
nities, and exemptions in respect to travel or residence, as may there
 be enjoyed as the citizens or subjects of the most favored nation."^^
 Buoyed by their success in the Burlingame Treaty, Chinese mer
chants sought federal legislation to abolish discriminatory state laws.
 In 1869, accompanied by several supporting white merchants and
 bankers, representatives of the Chinese community met with a
 congressional delegation in San Francisco. At this meeting, merchant
 Fung Tang asked the congressmen to give the Chinese the just and
 equal protection guaranteed to them by the treaty and to provide
 federal protection from state injustices like the foreign miners' tax
 and the exclusion of Chinese testimony in courts. "We think your
 special tax, collected only from Chinese miners, is not according to
 our treaty with your government," Tang argued. "We are willing to
 pay taxes cheerfully, when taxed equally with others. . . . 
Most of
 all
 —wefeel the want of protection to life and property when Courts
 of Justice refuse our testimony, and thus leave us defenseless, and
 unable to obtain justice for ourselves." Again the Chinese struggle
 for civil rights was effective. The 1870 Civil Rights Act, well known
 for its protection of blacks, also contained language and provi
sions for civil rights for the Chinese: "all persons," it read, within
 the jurisdiction of the United States shall have "the same right" to
 "make and enforce contracts, to sue, be parties, give evidence, and
 to the full and equal benefit of all laws and proceedings for the
 security of person and property as is enjoyed by white citizens . . . 
any
 law, statute ... to the contrary notwithstanding." Furthermore "no
 tax" shall be imposed "by any State upon any person immigrating
 thereto from a foreign country which is not equally imposed and
 enforced upon every person emigrating to such State from any other
 foreign country, and any law of any State from any other foreign
 country is hereby declared null and void."'^''
Gam Saan Haak
 115
 But guarantees of equal protection by treaty and by federal law
 had little or no effect on what happened in society. There the Chinese
 remained vulnerable, victims of racial discrimination and violence.
 "The cheap labor cry was always a falsehood," protested Lee Chew.
 Our labor was "never cheap" and "always commanded the highest
 market price." But "it was the jealousy of laboring men of other
 nationalities
 —especially the Irish
 —that raised all the outcry
 against the Chinese. No one would hire an Irishman, German, En
glishman or Italian when he could get a Chinese, because our
 countrymen [were] so much more honest, industrious, steady, sober,
 and painstaking. Chinese were persecuted, not for their vices, but for
 their virtues." Blamed as "the source of the troubles" of the American
 working class, the Chinese suffered from racial attacks. They had to
 flee from American boys who screamed, "God Damn Chinamen!"
 and threw rocks at them. "When I first came," Andrew Kan told an
 interviewer in 1924, forty-four years after his arrival, "Chinese
 treated worse than dog. Oh, it was terrible, terrible. At that time all
 Chinese have queue and dress same as in China. The hoodlums,
 roughnecks and young boys pull your queue, slap your face, throw
 all kind of old vegetables and rotten eggs at you." "The Chinese
 were in a pitiable condition in those days," recalled Huie Kin in his
 account of San Francisco's Chinatown during the 1870s. "We were
 simply terrified; we kept indoors after dark for fear of being shot in
 the back. Children spit upon us as we passed by and called us rats."''^
 Chinese saw the source of their oppression was white racism,
 for they were treated very differently from the European immigrants.
 "Up to 800,000 Europeans enter the United States per year, yet the
 labor unions hardly cared," the Chinese Six Companies noted. "A
 few thousands of the Chinese arrivals would irritate American work
ers .. . 
and European immigrants get citizenships and voting rights
 often immediately after their arrival in the United States." Similarly,
 laundryman Lee Chew complained: "Irish fill the almshouses and
 prisons and orphan asylums, Italians are among the most dangerous
 of men, Jews are unclean and ignorant. Yet they are all let in, while
 Chinese, who are sober, or duly law abiding, clean, educated and
 industrious, are shut out. . . . 
More than half the Chinese in this
 country would become citizens if allowed to do so, and would be
 patriotic Americans."^^
 Immigrants with white skins did not remain "strangers" in
 America. Ginn Wall painfully understood this reality. He had come
 here in the 1870s to work on the railroad and brought his wife,
6
 Strangers
 1 1
 hoping they would be able to make a home for themselves in Cali
fornia. Many years later he cursed America for denying him the
 fulfillment of his dream. "Let's just fold up here," he told his son.
 "You come with me and we'll go back home. This is a white man's
 country. You go back to China when you make your money, that is
 where you belong. If you stay here, the white man will kill you."^°
 Other Chinese laborers shared Wall's apprehension and fear.
 Few Chinese men had come with their wives, and Chinese were
 generally afraid to raise families and make their homes in America.
 In 1855, a Chinese merchant of San Francisco explained that the
 Chinese had been "warned" not to come to America and that con
sequently they did not find "peace in their hearts in regard to bringing
 families." Noting how the Chinese were victims of racial violence
 and robbery, the merchant sadly concluded: "If the rabble are to
 harass us, we wish to return to our former homes." The record of
 Chinese departing from the San Francisco Custom House reflected
 a return mentality. The numbers of migrants returning to China even
 exceeded the numbers entering this country during the years 1864,
 1866, and 1867, and remained constantly high during the years be
fore the Chinese Exclusion Act. Between 1850 and 1882, 330,000
 Chinese migrants entered the United States, and 150,000, or 47 per
cent, returned to China.^^
 But thousands of Chinese sojourners decided to stay, or found
 they could not return to their homeland. For many Chinese migrants,
 America turned out to be not "Gold Mountain" but a mountain of
 debt. "From the proceeds of a hard day's toil, after the pay for food
 and clothes, very little remains," explained the Chinese Six Com
panies in a protest against the foreign miners' tax in the late 1850s.
 Chinese migrants had borrowed money for their passage or perhaps
 had sold all of their property to come to America. How "bitter" they
 now felt, unable to go home. "In the course of four years, out of
 each ten men that have come over scarcely more than one or two
 get back again." In 1876, the Chinese Six Companies again com
plained in an address to Congress:
 Many Chinamen have come; few have returned. Why is this?
 Because among our Chinese people a few in California have
 acquired a fortune and returned home with joy, . . . 
They have
 expected to come here for one or two years and make a little
 fortune and return. Who among them ever thought of all these
 difficulties? Expensive rents, expensive living. A day without
 work means a day without food. For this reason, though wages
Gam Saan Haak
 are low, yet they are compelled to labor and live in poverty,
 quite unable to return to their native land.^-^
 117
 Still, though they considered themselves sojourners, Chinese mi
grants showed signs of settlement from the very beginning. In San
 Francisco during the 1850s, they built a Chinatown, a bustling colony
 of thirty-three general merchandise stores, fifteen apothecaries, five
 restaurants, five herb shops, three boarding houses, five butcher
 stores, and three tailor shops. "The majority of the houses were of
 Chinese importation," observed a traveler, "and were stores, stocked
 with hams, tea, dried fish, dried ducks, and other Chinese eatables,
 besides copper pots and kettles, fans, shawls, chessmen, and all sorts
 of curiosities. Suspended over the doors were brilliantly-colored
 boards covered with Chinese characters, and with several yards of
 red ribbon streaming from them; while the streets thronged with
 Celestials, chattering vociferously as they rushed about from store
 to store." A Chinese immigrant, arriving in San Francisco in 1868,
 found a thriving and colorful Chinatown, "made up of stores catering
 to the Chinese only." The Chinese were "all in their native costume,
 with queues down their backs," and the entire street fronts of the
 stores were open, with groceries and vegetables overflowing on the
 sidewalks. Every morning in the streets could be seen Chinese veg
etable peddlers, "in loose pajamalike pants and coats carrying two
 deep baskets of greens, fruits, and melons, balanced on their shoul
ders with the help of a pole."^^
 Nine years later, the Chinese quarter of San Francisco was six
 blocks long, running from California Street to Broadway. All day
 long and often until late at night, the streets were crowded with
 Chinese. According to the Reverend Otis Gibson, they had shaven
 crowns and neatly braided queues, and they sauntered "lazily along,
 talking, visiting, trading, laughing, and scolding in the strangest, and,
 to an American, the most discordant jargon." Here and there they
 gathered in groups on street corners. Frequently "a group of these
 fellows" would amuse themselves for a long time at "the expense of
 some party of 'white people,' who, passing through 'Chinatown' to
 see the sights, all unconscious to themselves," presented to the
 Chinese "a show quite as novel as they themselves [could] boast of
 seeing."^^
 Everywhere in the colony were signboards in Chinese characters,
 giving the stores and shops euphonious and poetic names. Adorning
 the entrances of wholesale houses were signs for Wung Wo Shang
8
 Strangers
 1 1
 ("everlasting harmony, producing wealth"), Tung Cheung ("unitedly
 prospering"), Wa Yung ("the flowery fountain"), and Man Li ("ten
 thousand profits"). Apothecary shops had signboards that read: "The
 hall of the approved medicines of every province and of every land."
 Restaurants had signboards describing the culinary delights they of
fered: "Fragrant almond chamber," "Chamber of the odors of distant
 lands," "Fragrant tea chamber." A store of foreign goods carried the
 signboard Chai Lung Shing, or "abundant relief." Fan Tan saloons
 had signboards promising: "Get rich, please come in," "Straight enter
 the winning doors," "Riches ever flowing." On the glass windows
 and doors of their stalls, opium dealers pasted red cards announcing:
 "Opium dipped up in fractional quantities. Foreign smoke in broken
 parcels, No. 2 Opium to be sold at all times." Hung on the walls of
 stores were scrolls that stated "Profit coming in like rushing waters.
 Customers coming like clouds" and "Ten thousand customers con
stantly arriving. Let rich customers continually come."^^
 The immigrants also built Chinatowns in rural towns like Sac
ramento, Marysville, and Stockton. Business communities there were
 formed to service the needs of Chinese miners and farmers. By 1860,
 there were 121 Chinese merchants, storekeepers, and grocers in the
 three counties of Sacramento, Yuba, and San Joaquin. Twenty years
 later, their number had increased by 44 percent to 174. In addition,
 there were twenty-two restaurant keepers, fifty-four butchers and fish
 sellers, and 564 laundrymen and laundresses. Meanwhile, China
towns also developed in Fresno and Los Angeles, and by 1890 these
 had Chinese populations of 2,736 and 4,224 respectively.^^
 Organizations abounded in Chinatowns. Tongs were present
 almost from the very beginning: the first secret society, the Kwang
tek-tong, was founded in California in 1852. Originally underground
 anti-government movements in Guangdong, the tongs served a par
ticular need in Chinese America. "We are strangers in a strange
 country," said a tong member. "We must have an organization (tong)
 to control our country fellows and develop our friendship." A laundry
 worker said he decided to join a tong because he believed it would
 help the Chinese to cultivate friendship and to help one another while
 they were in "a strange land." Tongs offered their members protec
tion. "Occasionally members of the tongs use their organization to
 take advantage of non-members of tongs," said a Chinese. "For
 example, a Chinese leased a building and found it necessary to raise
 his rent to pay for the advanced rent on his new lease; the renters
 threatened to bring trouble to the non-tong member who held the
Gam Saan Haak
 119
 lease, unless he let them have the old rate of rent." Meeting the needs
 of immigrants, tongs proliferated in the United States; extending their
 activities beyond mutual assistance, they came to control the opium
 trade as w^ell as gambling and prostitution in the Chinese commu
nities. The tongs had amusingly high-sounding names; for example,
 the On Leong Society or "Chamber of Tranquil Conscientiousness"
 and the Kwang-tek-Tong or "Chamber of Far-Reaching Virtue" were
 prostitution organizations. Tongs were colorful and visible organi
zations in Chinatown. After the death of a tong leader, the tong
 would hire bands, "both American and Chinese, and have a long
 parade
 —not just for mourning, but to show its glory."^^
 Chinese immigrants also formed fongs composed of close family
 and village members, and "clans," larger groupings of village asso
ciations. The family associations maintained clubhouses, functioning
 as residences and social centers. The clans established temples, trans
mitted letters to the villages in the homeland, and shipped home the
 bodies or bones of the deceased. In San Francisco's Chinatown, they
 also provided police and garbage service. Transcending the fongs and
 clans were the huiguan, district associations based on the districts or
 regions from which the migrants had originated, such as Toishan,
 Yanping, or Namhoi. These associations were responsible for re
ceiving the migrants, providing initial housing, and finding employ
ment. They also administered the "credit-ticket" system, checking
 migrants seeking return passage to make certain all their debts had
 been paid. In San Francisco during the 1850s, the district associations
 were the Sze Yup, Ning Yeung, Sam Yup, Yeong Wo, Hop Wo, and
 Yan Wo; they later organized themselves into the "Chung Wai Wui
 Koon." Known popularly as the Chinese Six Companies, the orga
nization helped settle interdistrict conflicts and provided educational
 and health services to the community. The leaders of the Chinese Six
 Companies were merchants. They interacted with the city's white
 business community. They had access to public officials and also
 regularly arranged to have influential Americans advise and speak
 for the Chinese community.
 Gradually the Chinese were creating their own communities in
 America. They built altars to honor their gods 
— Kwan Kung, god
 of literature and war; Bak Ti, god of the north; Hou Wang, the
 monkey god; Kwan Yin, goddess of mercy. They also celebrated
 traditional holidays. During Chinese New Year in January or Feb
ruary, they first did their Dah Faw Horn Muy, or housecleaning.
 "Everything is cleansed to prepare for welcoming the coming year,"
1 20
 Strangers
 A. W. Loomis reported in 1869. "The house is almost turned inside
 out; ceiling, floors and furniture are scrubbed." The house could not
 be cleaned again until after the celebration, or else the good fortune
 arriving with the new year would be swept away. "Oh yes 
— we
 cleaned the house upside down," a Chinese immigrant remembered.
 "You know it was good luck to have plenty at the start of the New
 Year. We couldn't buy too much, but a bit of everything. And then
 there would be oranges and lishee [gifts of money wrapped in red
 paper for good luck]. We didn't have money for the Hshee 
— we used
 dried nuts for money." Then the Chinese ushered in the New Year
 with lion dances and firecrackers. During the celebration, whites also
 joined the festive throngs in Chinatown. "The merchants," said
 Loomis, "appear highly delighted to see and to welcome all of our
 citizens whom they can recognize as friends, and all with whom they
 have had any kind of business connections," offering liquors and
 cigars to the ''white people."" As soon as the clock tolled off the last
 minute of the departing year, firecrackers exploded in a roaring,
 crackling din, filling entire streets with columns of smoke and sheets
 of flames, covering the ground red with the shreds of spent fireworks,
 and frightening away the evil spirits for the coming year. A Cantonese
 poem described this time of celebration:
 New Year's Day starts a new calendar year.
 The scent ofspice fills the air beyond the front
 door.
 Everywhere, we Chinese sojourners greet each other
 with auspicious sayings.
 In joyous laughter.
 We wish good luck to others, and to ourselves.
 May this year be prosperous for all walks of life;
 So that, clothed silk, we can together bid the
 Flowery Flag [America] farewell.^^
 In the spring, the Chinese held their "Pure Brightness Festival,"
 or Qing Ming. This was memorial day for the Chinese in America.
 Unable to visit the family graves in China, they went to local Chinese
 cemeteries where they prayed before "spirit" shrines. In the fall, the
 Chinese celebrated the Moon Festival to thank the gods for good
 harvests. During this celebration, they enjoyed moon cakes, a pastry
 shaped like a moon filled with delicacies like salted duck egg yolks
 and sweetened soybean paste.^^
 For recreation, the Chinese attended the Chinese theater. The
Gam Saan Haak
 III
 first Chinese play in America was presented in 1852 when 123 actors
 of the Hong Fook Tong performed at the American Theatre in San
 Francisco. In 1879, a Chinese theater was erected in the city. "It is
 a three-story brick building, 92 feet deep, with a frontage of 52 feet,"
 the San Francisco Chronicle reported. "The height of the ceiling from
 the floor in front of the stage is 35 feet. It has an iron front, a large
 main gallery in the center of the auditorium, and two hanging side
 galleries. Its seating capacity is to be for 2500 people. . . . 
Thirty-five
 cents is the price of admission." During performances in the Chinese
 theater, the men — sometimes a few hundred, sometimes a thou
sand
 —sat on benches in the gallery. Smoking cigars and cigarettes
 and eating mandarin oranges and Chinese melon seeds, they listened
 to the Chinese orchestra and watched the Chinese drama on stage.
 In the dark smoke-filled theater, sitting in a segregated section, could
 be seen Chinese women.
 In America, Chinese women found themselves in a world of
 men. In 1852, of the 11,794 Chinese in California, only seven were
 women — a ratio of 1,685 males to every one female. Eighteen years
 later, of 63,199 Chinese in the United States only 4,566 were fe
male
 —a ratio of fourteen to one. Chinese women worked in a
 variety of occupations: they were housekeepers, servants, laun
dresses, seamstresses, shoemakers, cooks, miners, and fisherwomen.
 But overwhelmingly, especially in the early years, Chinese women
 were prostitutes. In the 1870 census manuscripts, 61 percent of the
 3,536 Chinese women in California had occupations Hsted as "pros
titute." Most of the Chinese prostitutes were in a condition of debt
 peonage, under contracts like this one signed by Xin Jin:
 The contractee Xin Jin became indebted to her master/mistress
 for food and passage from China to San Francisco. Since she is
 without funds, she will voluntarily work as a prostitute at Tan
 Fu's place for four and one-half years for an advance of 1,205
 yuan (U.S. $524) to pay this debt. There shall be no interest on
 the money and Xin Jin shall receive no wages. At the expiration
 of the contract, Xin Jin shall be free to do as she pleases. Until
 then, she shall first secure the master/mistress's permission if a
 customer asks to take her out. If she has the four loathsome
 diseases she shall be returned within 100 days; beyond that time
 the procurer has no responsibility. Menstruation disorder is lim
ited to one month's rest only. If Xin Jin becomes sick at any
 time for more than 15 days, she shall work one month extra; if
 she becomes pregnant, she shall work one year extra. Should
izz
 Strangers
 Xin Jin run away before her term is out, she shall pay whatever
 expense is incurred in finding and returning her to the brothel.
 This is a contract to be retained by the master/mistress as evidence
 of the agreement. Receipt of 1205 yuan by Ah Yo. Thumb print
 of Xin Jin in the contractee. Eighth month 11th day of the 12th
 year of Guang-zu (1886).^o
 Called lougeui ("always holding her legs up") and baak haak
 chat ("hundred men's wife"), Chinese prostitutes worked in the min
ing outposts, railroad camps, agricultural villages, and Chinatowns
 like Sacramento, Marysville, and San Francisco. Dressed in fancy
 clothes and wearing jewelry, some prostitutes worked in high-class
 brothels. "And every night, seven o'clock, all these girls were dressed
 in silk and satin, and sat in front of a big window," recalled Lilac
 Chen, who had been brought here in 1893 by a brothel owner, "and
 the men would look in and choose their girls who they'd want for
 the night." Most of the prostitutes worked in lower-grade brothels
 or in "cribs"
 —street-level compartments four feet wide and six feet
 deep with windowed doors covered with bars or heavy screens facing
 dim alleys. Dressed in cotton tunics and trousers, women peered out
 from the windows, promising men pleasure for twenty-five or fifty
 cents: "Lookee two bits, feelee floor bits, doee six bits." They were
 fed two or three times a day, their dinner usually consisting of rice
 and a stew of pork, eggs, liver, and kidneys. They were enormously
 profitable for their owners. "At an average of 38 cents per customer
 and seven customers per day," Lucie Cheng Hirata has calculated,
 "a lower-grade prostitute would earn about 850 dollars per year and
 3,404 dollars after four years of servitude. Since women in the inferior
 dens were kept at the subsistence level, the cost of maintaining them
 must not have exceeded 8 dollars per month or 96 dollars per year
 money I
 per person." The average capital outlay or purchase price of a woman
 was usually about $530. As Lucie Cheng Hirata wryly noted, "These
 calculations indicate that the owner would begin to make a profit
 from the prostitute's labor in the first year of her service!"^^
 Virtual slaves, many of the prostitutes became opium addicts,
 seeking in the drug a psychic sanctuary from the daily abuse and
 degradation. "My owners were never satisfied, no matter how much
 made," a prostitute complained. When they were angry, her
 owners would often beat her with wooden clubs, and once they
 threatened her with a pistol. "My last mistress was very cruel to me,"
 another prostitute said; "she used to whip me, pull my hair, and
 pinch the inside of my cheeks." Disease was a constant threat: syphilis
Gam Saan Haak
 "Suddenly I
 123
 and gonorrhea were widespread. Life for the prostitute was danger
ous and sometimes short. Occasionally they were beaten to death by
 their customers or owners, and others committed suicide by taking
 overdoses of drugs or drowning themselves in San Francisco Bay.
 Prostitute Wong Ah So was luckier. She was at a "party given by
 the Tong men" where "slave girls" sat and drank with the men.
 saw a friend of my father's come in, a man who had
 seen me less than a year ago," she recalled. "Although I 
was all
 dressed up so grand he recognized me, and the first chance he had,
 he came and asked me, 'Are you not so and so's daughter?' " Ten
 days later, thanks to the man's efforts, Wong Ah So was rescued and
 taken to a Christian mission.^^
 Chinese prostitutes in California decreased in number signifi
cantly after 1870. By 1880, only 24 percent of the 3,171 Chinese
 women in the state were designated as prostitutes in the census manu
scripts. The number of adult Chinese females listed in the manuscript
 census as "housekeepers"
 —women performing household chores
 without pay and reporting no other occupations 
— doubled from
 753, or 21 percent of the total population of this group in 1870, to
 1,445, or 46 percent, in 1880. In that year, 72 percent of married
 Chinese women were housekeepers. A Chinese folk song urged
 Chinese prostitutes to seek husbands and a safer life:
 Prostitution ruins the body most harmfully.
 Come ashore, the sooner the better.
 My advice is to get hitched to a man, and don't
 ever forget, dear young lass:
 It's no shame to have a decent meal with plain tea.
 All in all
 —
 You'd also gain a husband.
 We've all witnessed the frequent raids of brothels
 in the Golden Gate;
 You need not to worry about these roughnecks once
 you live with a man.^^
 Meanwhile Chinese men had begun bringing wives with them
 to America or arranging to have women sent here to become their
 wives. Ah Chew came to California around 1854 when he was about
 fifteen years old and worked in the gold mines; driven from mining
 by white miners, he found work in the Sacramento delta in levee
 construction. "Levee building was very hard work, but at least it was
 steady," his grandson stated. "After my grandfather had decided to
124
 Strangers
 settle down in the Sacramento Delta, he went back to China on a
 sailboat to marry, and then brought his wife over here." In 1862, at
 the age of eighteen, Chin Gee-Hee came to America and worked in
 a lumber mill in Washington. He saved his earnings, and within a
 few years he sent for a wife and secured for her a job as a cook in
 the mill's cookhouse. In 1875, Mrs. Chin gave birth to their son,
 Chin Lem, believed to be the first Chinese born in the Washington
 Territory. In 1869, A. W. Loomis reported the case of "a wife coming
 all the way alone across the stormy sea" to be with her husband.
 "Friends at home besought her not to do a thing so in conflict with
 Chinese custom; the husband and his relatives in this country, when
 they heard of her purpose, wrote entreating her not to expose herself
 to the hardships and perils on the sea, and to the trials which would
 be liable to befall her here; but she answered that where the husband
 was there she had a right to be." She came to California, where she
 supported herself and her child by sewing garments and making
 cigarettes, while her husband worked for a mining company in the
 Kern River area.^"*
 In Washington, California, and elsewhere Chinese families were
 gradually forming as men began to leave mining and railroad con
struction and to enter more stable pursuits like farming and shop
keeping. One area of enterprise that encouraged the formation of
 Chinese families was the fishing industry in Monterey. In the fishing
 village of Point Alones, for example, nearly half of the Chinese were
 dren. . .
 female. According to a description published in the 1870s, the village
 was organized into "companies," but most of these companies were
 actually families: "Man Lee Company, three men and three women;
 Sun Sing Lee Company, three men, two women and three chil
." As early as 1876, in its memorial to President Ulysses
 Grant, the Chinese Six Companies noted the presence of "a few
 hundred Chinese families" in the country, and added: "There are
 also among us a few hundred, perhaps a thousand, Chinese children
 born in America."^^
 Increasingly, Chinese men wanted to find wives and settle down.
 But they discovered that sometimes getting a wife could be vexatious
 and expensive. Fook Sing of Downieville, California, for example,
 went through a trying ordeal. He had been informed about a Chinese
 woman named Min Que who was in Wadsworth, Nevada. On July
 25, 1874, he sent a telegraph to Kaw Chung in Wadsworth: "Don't
 you let her go. I will come tomorrow and see her. I 
want to bring
 her to Downieville to live with me. What time does the train start?
Gam Saan Haak
 125
 Answer quick." The next day he sent another message to Chung: "I
 will start for Wadsworth today and meet her. . . . 
Tell her to wait
 for me to come and if she wants to go I will let her. Don't care.
 Answer." But she went off with or was taken by another man. On
 August 12, Ah Tom sent a telegram to Ting Yeu of Downieville:
 "Fook Sing's woman has gone to Marysville." The next day the
 disappointed and anxious Fook Sing sent telegrams to Sing Lung in
 Marysville: "Bring woman up right away will pay three hundred
 dollars. Answer." "Is man who took woman there? Answer." At
 11:05 A.M. the same day, Sing Lung wired Tie Yuen in Downieville:
 "Tell Fook Sing Min Que is here. What you going to do? Answer
 quick." Fook Sing had found the woman, but would Min Que agree
 to marry him? At 4:20 p.m. Sing Lung telegraphed Fook Sing: "She
 wants you to come right away and get warrant with officer, friends
 will help. You don't be afraid. We will get her sure." Fook Sing
 rushed to Marysville, and on August 15, he wired Tie Yuen: "I saw
 the woman but have not arrested her. Send marriage certificate."
 Immediately Tie Yuen responded: "Will send the certificate next
 stage."^^
 Fook Sing, it seems, was able to get himself a wife; but he was
 one of the lucky few. "In all 
New York there are less than forty
 Chinese women," Lee Chew commented bitterly, "and it is impossible
 to get a Chinese woman out here [to the United States] unless one
 goes to China and marries her there, and then he must collect affi
davits to prove that she is really his wife. That is in the case of a
 merchant. A laundryman can't bring his wife here under any circum
stances." Most Chinese men were trapped in a womanless world.
 "You know Chinese no allowed to marry white girl in California
 and Oregon. Only in Washington and up here make lots of trouble,"
 Woo Gen of Seattle told an interviewer. Protesting the legislation
 prohibiting the entry of Chinese women. Woo asked: "What Chinese
 going do for wife?"^^
 Cut off from women from their homeland, a few of them de
veloped relationships with white women. In a letter to Lung On,
 Markie Tom wrote about two white women: "There are two bar
barian girls here, very nice, and who do not look down on our
 Chinese." He added that they would like to meet Chen Shih. In 1886
 the San Francisco Board of Supervisors reported several white
Chinese couples living in Chinatown: "At No. 900 and at 902 Dupont
 Street, one white woman living with a Chinaman on the third floor;
 at 613 Jackson Street, second floor; at 708 Commercial Street, third
iz6
 Strangers
 story; at 710 Commercial Street, third story. . . 
." In New York,
 Wong Chin Foo wrote in Cosmopolitan, Chinese men were married
 to "Irish, German, or Italian wives," most of them "poor working
 girls." "The Chinamen often make them better husbands than men
 of their own nation," Wong stated, "as quite a number of them who
 ran away from their former husbands to marry Chinamen have
 openly declared. The Chinaman never beats his wife, gives her plenty
 to eat and wear, and generally adopts her mode of life. Their children
 speak the English language, and adopt the American ways and dress."
 Among "the white women of Chinatown," Lee Chew reported, were
 "many excellent and faithful wives and mothers."^^
 In an interview conducted in 1924, a Chinese merchant in Port
land told a story about a disappointment he had experienced. He
 had arrived here in 1880 and had married a Chinese woman in 1893.
 But he did not marry the woman he loved. Some years before he had
 known a missionary's wife whose husband had been ill. "I had helped
 them, and finally he died, and I used to go and see her, to help her,
 and then she used to come and see me. This went on more often than
 before, and pretty soon we had what you might call love. She very
 often would hold my hand and make love very much like the Amer
icans do. I 
was a young fellow and I liked this. I also knew that she
 was white and I 
was Chinese." She agreed to marry him, but she
 wanted first to take a little trip to her home in eastern Canada before
 the wedding. While he waited for her to return, he received a letter
 from her every day initially, then after a silence of three weeks, he
 got a "very cool letter." Confused, he went to find her in Canada.
 "She nearly refuse to see me," he said. "I was very surprised at this.
 My heart was very heavy. Oh, I feel so badly, my mind was all
 upset." He returned to Portland, where his friends advised him to
 forget her. "But I 
was very fond of her. I think she would have made
 a much better wife than the no-good woman I married." The marriage
 was an unhappy one, and his wife had moved to Detroit with one
 of their sons.^^
 For the overwhelming majority of Chinese men, the future
 would not include the possibility of a family in their new land. "Pa
thetic the lonely bachelors stranded in a foreign land," reflected a
 Chinese migrant in a Cantonese rhyme. On Sundays, most Chinese
 men had no families to take on outings. They had "no homes in this
 country," observed Otis Gibson of San Francisco, and nearly all the
 common laborers lived on the streets on Sundays simply because they
Gam Saan Haak
 127
 had "nothing to do, and nowhere else to go." Sitting at tables or
 lying on beds, they reviewed the "classics" or skimmed "the pages
 of some cheap novel." "Yes, go to theater," a waiter at a Chinese
 restaurant replied when asked about his free time. "When I 
no work?
 I sleep. Sometimes gamble a little." At night and during the weekends,
 men played mah-jongg, fan-tan, and baakgapbiu, a game similar to
 keno. "Gambling is mostly fan tan," reported Lee Chew, "but there
 is a good deal of poker, which the Chinese have learned from Amer
icans and can play very well. They also gamble with dominoes and
 dice." Tom Lee, a cook and houseboy, said: "No get lonely for home
 China, many China boys all same one family. Sometime have holiday.
 Put on Merican hat, shoe, tie, all same White man, walk to Stockton
 have good time." Men also tried to find release in the brothels or
 escape in the opium parlors: inhaling deeply from ivory opium pipes,
 they "mounted the dragon" and rode into fantastic worlds far away
 from their dreary reality.^^°
 Mostly the men spent their leisure hours in the back rooms of
 Chinese stores. There "all Chinese came," a migrant recalled. "Not
 just relatives. They all just like to get together. They talk to
Sometimes they even get some idea from China. Our vil
gether. . . .
 lage had something to do 
— they send a letter over here, we get
 together and talk it over
 —and send it back. We communicate, see,
 otherwise you're alone. You know nothing."^^^
 A uniquely Chinese-American social institution, the store was
 a center of life in the Chinese community, the "resort of all the
 Chinese in the colony" and "a place of call." There they were able
 to purchase Chinese foods, books in Chinese, firecrackers, incense,
 ceremonial paper, Chinese herbs, and other Chinese sundries. There
 they escaped from the "strangeness and fierceness of their everyday
 world" and recalled "happier days at home when they crowded the
 village inns ... to drink tea and exchange gossip, or to listen to
 vagrant minstrels chant ballads." In the back rooms of stores, men
 spent many pleasant hours telling Chinese folktales and especially
 ghost stories, like the one about the sound of the slippers:
 died. . . .
 In China many years ago the father of a certain woman
 The daughter had cared a great deal for him and when
 he died she grieved deeply. Not long after his death she was
 awakened one night by a familiar sound, the sound of her father's
 slippers walking across the floor. She was not afraid of ghosts
 or of darkness, so she got up to look, but she could not discover
128
 Strangers
 anything unusual. Many nights after that she heard the sound,
 always at the same time, and always she would wake up and
 investigate, but never did she discover what it meant.
 Shortly afterwards the daughter was married and her hus
band took her over here, to America. She arrived in America
 and had forgotten all about the sound of the slippers. But one
 day she heard it again, here in her new home in America. She
 was very much surprised at this. She did not think it strange
 when she heard it in China. But here in America! The sound was
 exactly the same as that she had heard when she lived in her
 little house in the village. And, even today, ever so often always
 at the same hour, she hears it and she knows, that it is the sound
 of her dead father's slippers scratching across the floor.^^^
 In the back rooms of stores, as the Chinese gathered around
 the stove for warmth, they challenged each other at chess and check
ers, played musical instruments, listened to the phonograph, and read
 newspapers. Some of them also taught each other English, struggling
 through An English-Chinese Phrase Book, compiled by Wong Sam
 and Assistants in San Francisco in 1875. The phrases reflected their
 everyday lives
 —the broad range ofexperiences, anxieties, and hopes
 of the Chinese in America. From this indispensable manual, they
 could learn the English sentences necessary to guide them in the
 strange new land:
 He took it from me by violence.
 The men are striking for wages.
 He claimed my mine.
 When will the lease expire?
 He cheated me out of my wages.
 He was choked to death with a lasso, by a robber.
 Can I sleep here tonight?
 Have you any food for me?
 She is a good-for-nothing huzzy [sic].
 The passage money is $50 from Hong Kong to California.
 The steamer will leave to-morrow.
 How long have you been in California?
 She is 
my wife.
 An unmarried man is called a bachelor.
 I received a letter from China.
 The United States have many immigrants.
 The immigration will soon be stopped.^°^
 In the back rooms, the men found out what was happening in
 town and also in the homeland. "Letters for the colony" were directed
Gam Saan Haak
 129
 in care of the store and public notices were written on "tablets of
 red paper and posted beside the door." Chinese newspapers were
 available, and interpreters were there to conduct negotiations and
 adjust differences with "the outside world." The store was a com
munity "post office" where proprietors like Lung On of the Kam
 Wah Chung Store used their calligraphy skills to write letters for
 illiterate Chinese workers.^'^'^
 One sojourner received a letter from his mother, a wailing re
minder to fulfill his filial obligations:
 I hear that you,
 ,
 my son, are acting the prodigal. . , . 
For
 many months there has arrived no letter, nor money. My supplies
 are exhausted. I 
am old; too infirm to work; too lame to beg.
 Your father in the mines of the mountains suffers from a crushed
 foot. He is weak, and unable to accumulate money. Hereafter,
 my son, change your course; be industrious and frugal, and remit
 to me your earnings; and within the year let me welcome home
 both your father and yourself.
 She had also written to an older relative, whom she had appointed
 to act as guardian:
 I hear that my son is playing the prodigal, being idle, or spending
 his earnings for unnecessary articles of clothing and in other
 forms of self-indulgence. I authorize you, his near relative and
 senior in years, to strenuously admonish him. If moderate chas
tisement fails, then call to your aid one or more of your brothers,
 (relatives) and sorely beat him, not pitying his body.^^^
 But returning home was not easy for many sojourners. Ing Weh
teh, for example, had worked hard and saved his money, but had
 lost the money when a friend in Oregon had invested it without his
 consent. "Because you took away that money," he wrote to Ing Pang
chi, "I could not return home. I 
came to America 
— to labor, to
 suffer, floating from one place to another, persecuted by the whites,
 for more than twenty years. . . . 
Do you know that both the old and
 the young at my home are awaiting me to deliver them out of star
vation and cold?" Liang Kau-tsi had also been in America for two
 decades and was scolded by his brother in a letter: "Because of our
 family's poverty, you went out of the country to make a Hving. You
 still haven't made any money during all of these twenty years? I 
am
 afraid that you are Americanized and totally forget about us."^°^
 Something had happened to Ing Weh-teh and Liang Kau-tsi and
 thousands of their fellow Chinese in the new land. They had come
130
 Strangers
 to America "extravagantly" in search of Gam Saan, but found them
selves "eating bitterness," hec fu. For many of the Gold Mountain
 men, the venture was a sad failure.
 My life's halfgone, but I'm still unsettled;
 I've erred, I'm an expert at whoring and
 gambling.
 Syphilis almost ended my life.
 I turned to friends for a loan, but no one took
 pity on me.
 Ashamed, frightened 
—
 Now, I must wake up after this long nightmare. . . . 
^°''
 In America the Chinese were forced to become "strangers" by
 economic interests
 —the demands ofwhite capitalists for a colonized
 labor force and the "ethnic antagonism" of white workers 
— as well
 as by an ideology defining America as a homogeneous white society.
 The Chinese found new conditions of "necessity" circumscribing
 their lives. As "strangers from a different shore," they were denied
 equality of opportunity and separated from their homeland by the
 keli
 —the "tyrannical laws" of exclusion. "They call us 'Chink,' "
 complained an old laundryman in 1924, cursing the "white demons."
 "They think we no good! America cut us off. No more come now,
 too bad!" Determined to find their Gold Mountain, they created their
 own "colonies," their Chinatowns, and they also struggled for their
 civil rights in the larger society. Coming from a society dominated
 by authoritarian political structures where social change through law
 and established political channels was unknown, they had become
 involved in the processes of democratic political institutions in Amer
ica. They could not become citizens, but they knew they were worthy
 of citizenship. "Since I have lived and made money in this country,"
 Andrew Kan argued in 1924, after forty-four years of working in
 America, "I should be able to become an American citizen."^^^
 Before they had come here, the Chinese could not have fully
 anticipated what they would do to the new land and America to
 them. Gam Saan represented liminahty. Years after their arrival, they
 could marvel at what they had achieved and wonder at what they
 had become. Mostly peasants in the old country, the Chinese had
 become pioneering prospectors in the foothills of the Sierras, railroad
 workers blasting tunnels through the granite mountains of California
 and laying tracks across the salt deserts of Utah, agricultural laborers
 in the fruit orchards of California and the cotton fields of Louisiana,
 i
Gam Saan Haak
 131
 enterprising farmers in the San Joaquin and Sacramento valleys, fac
tory workers in San Francisco and North Adams, laundrymen and
 shopkeepers from New York to Washington, "/o lui jai," they said,
 "we worked like mules." They had entered America and changed
 the land, their achievements trumpeting their presence. In turn, many
 found themselves transformed: looking at themselves in the mirror,
 they saw tall people. The Gold Mountain men and women had also
 created a world of Chinese America, rendering society on this side
 of the Pacific Ocean racially and culturally more diverse. No longer
 sojourners, they still found themselves viewed and treated as
 "strangers" by the fan qui ("foreign devils"). Though they had come
 across a different ocean than the European immigrants, they knew
 they had earned their claim to settlement, to be Chinese Americans.^^^


 During the 1920s, a Chinese college student from Hawaii was dis
tressed to discover how differently the Chinese were viewed and
 treated in California. In the islands she had grown up in a world
 where the majority of the people looked like her and where she had
 become accustomed to a "friendly, democratic, cosmopolitan spirit
 and atmosphere." She saw herself as an American, a citizen by birth.
 "I did not stop to think of myself as being distinctly a Chinese and
 of my friends as being distinctly Americans, or Japanese, or some
 other nationality," she wrote in a response to a questionnaire. "It
 never occurred to me that I 
am only a Chinese 
— made American in
 spirit." After arriving in Los Angeles, she was "thrilled" to be on the
 mainland; however, when she went to the university to register, she
 noticed people staring at her as though she were "a strange being":
 "I realized very soon that I 
was not an American in spite of the fact
 that I 
had citizenship privileges. At the University, I 
was referred to
 as a FOREIGN STUDENT. I objected to being called such at first; I
 insisted that I 
was an American. . . . 
But soon I learned that was
 laughed at. . . 
." Mocked by whites, she was "disappointed and
 deeply hurt" by their stares and sneers. She learned painfully that
 she was "a foreigner 
— a Chinese." Lonely and homesick for Hawaii,
 she felt "humiUated and chagrined" to think that she had prided her
 American citizenship above her ethnicity when in reality her citizen
ship meant "nothing 
— nothing in the United States."^
 By the "United States," she was referring to the mainland, where
 the Chinese had been forced to retreat into ethnic islands 
— their
 own separate economic and cultural colonies. During the early de
Ethnic Islands
 231
 cades of the twentieth century, the Chinese became increasingly urban
 and employed in restaurants, laundries, and garment factories. Iso
lated from American society, their communities in the cities became
 places of curiosity for white tourists, and a new industry began to
 develop in Chinatowns. Tourism became a new "necessity," rein
forcing both the image and condition of the Chinese as "strangers"
 in America.
 Ange! Island
 "Rather than banish the Chinaman," Jacob Riis recommended in
 1890 in How the Other HalfLives, "I would have the door opened
 wider
 —for his wife; make it a condition of his coming or staying
 that he bring his wife with him. Then, at least, he might not be what
 he now is and remains, a homeless stranger among us." But the door
 to Chinese immigration had been closed by the government here,
 creating an isolated, predominantly male community. The exclusion
 law and the Ah Moy court decision had prohibited the entry of
 Chinese women, including the wives of Chinese laborers already in
 the United States.^
 Cut off from their wives, Chinese men spent endless hours talk
ing about their lives. The future had seemed so promising when they
 had left their villages for Gam Saan:
 If you have a daughter, marry her quickly to a
 traveller to Gold Mountain,
 For when he gets off the boat, he will bring
 hundreds ofpieces of silver.
 But many Gold Mountain men found their dreams of wealth dashed
 in America. Their return delayed, they now remembered the warning
 of an old Taishan folk rhyme:
 If you have a daughter, do not marry her to a
 traveller to Gold Mountain,
 For he will leave her and forget her?
 Perhaps they should not have been so "extravagant." Mean
while, lonely wives in China longed for the warmth and prtfjence of
 their men far away in the land of Gam Saan:
 You bid farewell to the village well, setting out for
 overseas.
 It's been eight years, or is it already ten, and
 you haven't thought of home.
232
 Necessity
 Willow branches are now brilliant, fields exuberantly
 green.
 In her bedroom, the young woman's bosom is filled with
 frustration and griefs
 The women had become "widows" of men Hving in America.
 They sent the stranded sojourners, their husbands, "letters of love,
 soaked with tears." One Chinese migrant in Oregon responded, writ
ing a letter that began, "My Beloved Wife":
 It has been several autumns now since your dull husband left
 you for a far remote alien land. Thanks to my hearty body I 
am
 all right. Therefore stop your embroidering worries about me.
 Yesterday I received another of your letters. I could not
 keep tears from running down my cheeks when thinking about
 the miserable and needy circumstances of our home, and thinking
 back to the time of our separation.
 Because of our destitution I 
went out, trying to make a
 living. Who could know that the Fate is always opposite to man's
 design? Because I 
can get no gold, I 
am detained in this secluded
 corner of a strange land. Furthermore, my beauty, you are im
plicated in an endless misfortune. I wish this paper would console
 you a little. This is all what I can do for now. . . .
 This letter was never finished and never mailed, left in a desk drawer
 of the Kam Wah Chung Store in Oregon.^
 What happened to the nameless writer of this unmailed letter
 might have paralleled the life stories of the owners of the Kam Wah
 Chung Store 
— Lung On and Ing Hay. They had come to America
 as sojourners in the 1880s. They worked first as wage earners and
 then opened their own merchandise store. Gradually, over the years,
 more. . . .
 as they built their business and developed personal and social ties to
 their new community, they felt a detachment from their homeland
 and their families. In 1899, Lung's father instructed his son in a
 letter: "Come home as soon as you can. Don't say 'no' to me any
 You are my only son. You have no brothers and your age
 is near forty. . . . 
You have been away from home for seventeen years,
 you know nothing about our domestic situation. . . . 
Come back, let
 our family be reunited and enjoy the rest of our lives." In a letter to
 "My Husband-lord," Lung's wife scolded her absent mate: "Ac
cording to Mr. Wang, you are indulging in sensuality, and have no
 desire to return home. On hearing this I 
am shocked and pained. I
Ethnic Islands
 233
 have been expecting your return day after day. . . . 
But, alas, I don't
 know what kind of substance your heart is made of. . . . 
Your daugh
ter is 
now at the age of betrothal and it is your responsibility to
 arrange her marriage." Her appeal must have moved her husband,
 for Lung wrote to his cousin Liang Kwang-jin on March 2, 1905:
 "We are fine here, thank you. Tell my family that I will go back as
 soon as I 
accumulate enough money to pay the fare." But a few
 weeks later, Lung learned from a letter written by his cousin, dated
 March 4, that certain events in the life history of his family in China
 had already passed him by: "Two years ago your mother died. Last
 year your daughter married. Your aged father is immobile. He will
 pass away any time now. Your wife feels left out and hurt. . . . 
Come
 back as soon as you receive this message." Meanwhile, Ing's father
 had also written to his son in 1903: "Men go abroad so that they
 might make money for support of their families, but you have sent
 neither money nor a letter since you left."^
 Separated from their families in China, the men missed the com
pany of their own small children 
— their sounds and laughter. Perhaps
 this was why Lung On and Ing Hay regularly saved pictures of children
 cut from calendars, advertisements, and newspapers and placed them
 safely in a box. Discovered decades later in one of the desk drawers
 of the abandoned store, this box of pictures told sad tales of Chinese
immigrant fathers living far away from their children. The two shop
keepers also pampered the white children in the neighborhood.
 Years later, one of them, Mrs. John W. Murray recalled: "Doc Hay
 always gave us children Chinese candy, oranges and other goodies."^
 Back home, Chinese women fingered and studied old yellowing
 photographs of their men, so young and so handsome. Look at these
 dreamers and the twinkle in their eyes, filled with possibilities and
 promises, they said proudly. But, aiya, what did they look like now,
 after twenty years in Gam Saan? A folk song conveyed the widening
 emotional distances that had developed between Chinese men in
 America and their wives in China:
 Pitiful is the twenty-year sojourner,
 Unable to make it home.
 Having been everywhere 
— north, south, east,
 west
 —
 Always obstacles along the way, pain
 knitting my brows.
2 34
 Necessity
 Worried, in silence.
 Ashamed, wishes unfulfilled.
 A reflection on the mirror, a sudden fright:
 hair, half frost-white.
 Frequent letters from home, all filled with much
 complaint.^
 Desperate to be reunited with their loved ones, some men looked
 for loopholes in the law. Aware Chinese merchants were permitted
 to bring their families here, Chinese laundrymen, restaurant owners,
 and even common laborers sometimes tried to pose as "paper mer
chants." A Chinese who had sworn in his oath to the immigration
 authorities that he was a "merchant" turned out to be a hotel cook;
 another was actually a gardener. Other Chinese would bribe mer
chants to list them as partners or would buy business shares in order
 to claim they were merchants. "A number of the stores in the cities
 are organized just for that purpose," explained an immigration com
missioner. "They are organized just to give the Chinese a chance to
 be a merchant."^
 Most Chinese men, however, believed they would never be able
 to bring their wives to America. Then suddenly a natural disaster
 occurred that changed the course of Chinese-American history. Early
 in the morning of April 18, 1906, an earthquake shook San Francisco.
 ''Aih yah, dai loong jen, aih yah dai loong jen,'" residents of China
town screamed, "the earth dragon is wriggling." In terror, they
 jumped out of their beds, fled from collapsing buildings, and ran
 down buckling streets. "I remember how everything fell off the shelf,"
 said eighty-three-year-old Alice Fun, who was born in San Francisco
 in 1899. "We had one of those stoves made out of brick and the
 stove had crumbled. So my father was going to put it back together
 again. But very soon we had to evacuate the place." Leland Chin
 was asleep when the earthquake hit: "I wake up, and here everything
 is shaking. Then here went everything tumbling down!" He looked
 out onto California Street and saw "a big crack" in the earth. Then
 came the fires, roaring down along Montgomery Street and the fi
nancial district.^^
 The fires destroyed almost all of the municipal records and
 opened the way for a new Chinese immigration. Chinese men could
 now claim they had been born in San Francisco, and as citizens they
 could bring their wives to the United States. Before the earthquake,
 the number of women had consistently remained at 5 percent or less
Ethnic Islands
 235
 of the Chinese population. In 1900 there were only 4,522 Chinese
 females in America. Only handfuls of them entered the country each
 year: between 1900 and 1906, their numbers ranged from twelve to
 145 annually. But after the catastrophe in San Francisco, they began
 arriving in increasing numbers 
— from 219 in 1910 to 356 in 1915
 to 573 in 1920 to 1,050 in 1922 and 1,893 two years later. One out
 of every four Chinese immigrants was female during this period,
 compared to only one out of twenty during the nineteenth century.
 Some 10,000 Chinese females came between 1907 and 1924. But
 this immigration was halted suddenly by that year's immigration act.
 One of the law's provisions prohibited the entry of aliens ineUgible
 to citizenship. "The necessity [for this provision]," a congressman
 stated, "arises from the fact that we do not want to establish addi
tional Oriental families here." This restriction closed tightly the gates
 for the immigration of Chinese women. "We were beginning to re
populate a little now," a Chinese man said bitterly, "so they passed
 this law to make us die out altogether." The law was cruel punishment
 for American men of Chinese ancestry. "It breaks up families, will
 not let the wife of a citizen come in, that is not right," a Chinese
 protested. "One's wife should be able to join him. The baby is able
 to come in while the mother is not." The provision applying the
 restriction to wives of citizens was repealed in 1930. By then, women
 represented 20 percent of the Chinese population, providing the be
ginning of a viable base for the formation of Chinese-American
 families."
 Meanwhile, Chinese sons had also begun coming to America.
 According to U.S. law, the children of Americans were automatically
 citizens of the United States, even if they were born in a foreign
 country. Thus children fathered by Chinese Americans visiting China
 were American citizens by birth and eligible for entry to their country.
 Many young men came to the United States as sons of American
 citizens of Chinese ancestry. Others came as imposters: known as
 "paper sons," they had purchased the birth certificates of American
 citizens born in China and then claimed they were citizens in order
 to enter the United States. Hay Ming Lee explained how the process
 worked: "In the beginning my father came in as a laborer. But the
 1906 earthquake came along and destroyed all those immigration
 things. So that was a big chance for a lot of Chinese. They forged
 themselves certificates saying they were born in this country, and
 then when the time came, they could go back to China and bring
 back four or five sons, just like that!" Exactly how many Chinese
Z36
 Necessity
 men falsely claimed citizenship as "paper sons" will never be known,
 but it was later calculated that if every claim to natural-born citi
zenship were valid, every Chinese woman living in San Francisco
 before 1906 would have had to have borne eight hundred children.^-^
 But the purchase of a birth certificate did not mean entry, for
 the "paper sons" were detained at the immigration station on Angel
 Island in San Francisco, where they had to pass an examination and
 prove their American identity. To prepare for the examination, they
 studied "crib sheets," or Hau-Kung, and memorized information
 about the families of their "fathers": they had to remember "every
one's name, the birthday, and if they passed away, when." When
 they approached the Golden Gate, they tore up their crib sheets and
 threw them overboard. Paper sonJim Quock said thathis grandfather
 had gone to America in the 1860s and had accumulated a fortune
 in gold. But he was robbed and murdered. "They never found the
 body or anything," Quock said. Inspired by the possibiHty of making
 money in America, he decided to follow his grandfather's path. "The
 only way I could come was to buy a paper, buy a citizen paper. I
 paid quite a bit of money, too. I paid $102 gold!" Quock was given
 a two-hundred-page book about his "paper" family to study. After
 his arrival at the Angel Island Immigration Station, he was detained
 for three weeks for the interrogation. "They ask you questions like
 how many steps in your house?" Quock recalled. "Your house had
 a clock? Where do you sleep at your house? I said, 'I sleep with my
 grandmother and brother.' They say, 'Okay, which position do you
 sleep?' All kinds of questions; you got to think." Sometimes "paper
 sons" had to think quickly during the examination. Two young men,
 seeking admission as the sons of a merchant, were questioned sep
arately by the inspectors. The first applicant was asked if there had
 been a dog in the house and he answered, "Yes." Later, they asked
 the second applicant the same question and he said, "No, no dog."
 The inspectors then recalled the first applicant, pressing him about
 the existence of the dog. "Yes," he replied smartly, "well, we had a
 dog, but we knew we were coming to the United States, so we ate
 the dog."i^
 The presence of "paper sons" often led to confusing situations
 in families. A father named Wong could have two sons, each with a
 "paper name," or Tze-ming, such as Chan or Chang, having entered
 as "sons" of other men. A Mr. Lee could come here as "Mr. Woo,"
 his wife would use the name "Mrs. Woo," and his children would
 register for school and the selective service as Woos. But to their
Ethnic Islands
 237
 family and in the Chinese community they would be Lees. Chinese
 often would refer to their gaa-lo-dau (false father) and offer expla
nations for their names: "According to the paper, I 
am supposed to
 be his brother" or "I share the same paper with him." Sen Hin Yung,
 who entered America as a sixteen-year-old son of a merchant in 1921,
 was actually Yip Jing Tom. On his gravestone, Yip Jing Tom is
 written in Chinese and Sen Hin Yung in English. After arriving in
 San Francisco in January 1910, Ring Mak passed the examination
 at Angel Island and was admitted to America as Bing Lai, the son
 of his mother's cousin, Poon Lai. Ack Pon Yee, the nephew of Boston
 merchant Tze Chun Wong, came here as his uncle's "paper son."
 One of Wong's sons had died as a baby and Ack Pon filled the slot
 as a Wong, becoming here the "paper brother" of Alfred Wong, who
 was born in the United States.^"^
 There was a "paper son" in our family. My stepfather, Koon
 Keu Young, had entered America as the son of a merchant; his father
 had gone back to China and died there. Many years later a "Cousin
 Bobby" appeared. As a child I 
was told he was my stepfather's cousin,
 the son of another merchant. Cousin Bobby was a cook and he often
 helped in our family restaurant. The two cousins were very close; I
 can still remember them talking stories loudly in Cantonese and
 laughing as they flashed their spatulas over sizzling woks. After I 
had
 graduated from college, I 
was surprised to learn from my stepfather
 that the two of them were brothers: born after his father had returned
 to China, "Cousin Bobby" was actually "Uncle Bobby."
 By the thousands, Chinese had begun entering the United States
 again. After sailing through the Golden Gate and disembarking on
 Angel Island, the newcomers were placed in the barracks of the
 immigration station. Their quarters were crowded and unsanitary,
 way . . .
 resembling a slum. "When we arrived," said one of them, "they
 locked us up like criminals in compartments like the cages in the zoo.
 They counted us and then took us upstairs to our rooms. There were
 two to three rooms in the women's section. . . . 
Each of the rooms
 could fit twenty or thirty persons." The men were placed in one large
 room. There were 190 "small boys up to old men, all together in the
 same room," a visitor reported in 1922. "Some were sleeping in the
 hammock like beds with their belongings hanging in every possible
 while others were smoking or gambling." The days were
 long and tedious, and "lights went out at a certain hour, about 9
 P.M." But their "intestines agitated," many could not fall asleep. The
 inmates could see San Francisco to the west and Oakland to the east;
Z38
 Necessity
 they had journeyed so far to come to America and yet they had not
 been allowed to enter. As they waited and waited, many expressed
 their rage and frustration in poems carved in silence on the walls of
 the barracks:
 Imprisoned in the wooden building day after
 day.
 My freedom withheld; how can I bear to talk
 about itf
 The days are long and the bottle constantly
 empty; my sad mood, even so, is not
 dispelled.
 Nights are long, and the pillow cold; who can
 pity my loneliness^^^
 But the newcomers were not released until they had convinced
 the authorities their papers were legitimate. And not everyone passed
 the examination. Approximately 10 percent of all the Chinese who
 landed on Angel Island were forced to board oceangoing ships and
 sent back to China.
 Barred from land, I really am to be pitied.
 My heart trembles at being deported back to
 China. . . .
 I came to seek wealth but instead reaped
 poverty.
 Some, in anger, vowed revenge. They promised in their poems, still
 defiantly visible on the walls of the barracks, to punish the "bar
barians," "the heartless white devils," and to destroy the racial bar
riers of exclusion.
 fulfill
 It is unbearable to relate the stories
 accumulated on the Island slopes.
 Wait till the day I become successful and
 my wish!
 I will not speak of love when I level the
 immigration station!^^
 The lucky ones were allowed to hurry onto ferries and to sail
 happily to San Francisco. By 1943, some 50,000 Chinese had entered
 America through Angel Island. But they did not then go to the Cal
ifornia foothills to become miners, the Sierra Nevada Mountains to
 work on the railroad, or the valleys of San Joaquin and Sacramento
 ^
 J
Ethnic Islands
 239
 to join the migrant farm laborers. Unlike the earlier pioneers from
 China, they went to the cities, seeking shelter and employment in
 Chinatowns.
 Gilded Ghettos: Chinatowns in the Early Twentieth Century
 The geographical distribution of the Chinese in America changed
 significantly during the early decades of the twentieth century. By
 1940, of the 77,504 Chinese on the mainland, 43,987, or 57 percent,
 resided in the Pacific states and 16,404, or 21 percent, in the Middle
 Atlantic states. Between 1900 and 1940, Chinatowns in the mountain
 and western regional cities like Butte, Boise, Rock Springs, Denver,
 and Salt Lake City were in decline. While the percentage of the
 Chinese population residing in cities with 100,000 or more inhab
itants was only 22 percent in 1880 and 33 percent in 1900, it rose
 rapidly to 56 percent within twenty years and to 71 percent by 1940.
 Predominantly a rural people in the nineteenth century, the Chinese
 became mainly an urban group. By 1940, 91 percent of the Chinese
 population, compared to only 55 percent of the Japanese (and 57
 percent of the total U.S. population), was classified by the Census
 Bureau as "urban."^^
 The urbanization of the Chinese population reflected several
 different developments. A Chinatown could survive, as Rose Hum
 Lee noted, only in a city with a population of at least 50,000, in an
 area with a diversified rather than a single industry, and in a state
 with a Chinese population of at least 250. Most of the Chinatowns
 in small western towns did not have these requirements. Secondly,
 the decline of the small Chinatowns was a consequence of the im
migration exclusion laws and the absence of Chinese women. "Well,
 there they were, with three hundred Chinese workers, and except for
 my mother, not a single woman," explained Johnny Ginn, describing
 the disappearance of a Chinese community. "That was the whole
 Chinese settlement in Sebastopol [California]. All those old guys
 thought about was how they wanted to go back to China. . . . 
And
 the reason there's no Chinese in Sebastopol today is that eventually
 they all died off because there was no reproduction."^^
 Pushed from the small towns, the Chinese were pulled to the
 metropolitan cities where employment was available in an ethnic
labor market. In the nineteenth century, Chinese laborers could be
 found in every sector of the American economy — agriculture, min
ing, manufacturing, and transportation. By 1920, they had virtually
 vanished from these areas of employment. The mainstay of California
240
 Necessity
 agriculture in the late nineteenth century, Chinese farm laborers did
 less than one percent of the harvesting in 1920. By then, there were
 only 151 Chinese miners, compared to 17,609 in 1870; only one
 hundred Chinese workers in cigar making and boot and shoe man
ufacturing, compared to more than 2,000 in 1870; only 488 Chinese
 railroad workers, compared to over 10,000 Chinese employed by the
 Central Pacific Railroad in the 1860s.
 The Chinese were located in a different sector of the labor
 market from whites. By 1920, 58 percent of the Chinese were in
 services, most of them in restaurant and laundry work, compared to
 only 5 percent for native whites and 10 percent for foreign whites.
 Only 9 percent of Chinese were employed in manufacturing, com
pared to 26 percent for native whites and 47 percent for foreign
 whites. "In all my life," said Peter Wong, who immigrated in 1921,
 "I always worked for the Chinese, never for Americans. I 
worked in
 a laundry. I 
worked in a restaurant, I 
worked in a Chinese store."
 Wong and his fellow Chinese workers had been crowded into a
 Chinese ethnic economy. The Chinese had been driven out of the
 general labor market and forced to withdraw to those occupations
 "where no bitter voice" would be raised against them.^^
 "The Chinks are all right if they remain in their place," said a
 white worker. "I don't mind their working in the laundry business,
 but they should not go any higher than that. After all, there aren't
 even enough jobs for us whites, without them butting in." Explaining
 why so many Chinese had entered the laundry business, one of them
 said: "It is a very hard job, sure enough. But there is nothing else to
 do. This is the kind of life we have to take in America. I, as one of
 the many, do not like to work in the laundry, but what else can I
 do? You've got to take it; that's all." The Chinese laundryman per
sonified the forced withdrawal of the Chinese into a segregated
 ethnic-labor market. They had not always been laundrymen; in fact,
 in 1870 of the 46,274 Chinese in all occupations, only 3,653, or 8
 percent were laundry workers. By 1920, of 45,614 gainfully em
ployed Chinese, 12,559, or 28 percent (nearly one out of three) were
 laundry workers. The number of Chinese laundries soared in the first
 half of the twentieth century. In Chicago, for example, there were
 209 of them in 1903 and 704 twenty-five years later. In New York
 City by 1940, 38 percent of all gainfully employed Chinese were
 engaged in laundry work; Chinese laundries were "located on almost
 every street corner." Chinese laundrymen had to spread themselves
 out, to Chicago, New York, Baltimore, Los Angeles, and other cities.
1
 Ethnic Islands
 24
 and to different districts within a city, where there were not too many
 laundries. "If you are the only laundry located in the country or small
 city, people will bring their clothes to you," said a laundry operator.
 "If there were two laundries, you will not find enough to eat.''-^^
 But as the "Chinese laundryman" seemed to become ubiquitous
 in American cities, he became the object of ridicule and stereotyping.
 He talked "funny" and was fond ofeating a strange delicacy 
— "dead
 rats." According to a chant of white children, he was
 Chinkie, Chinkie, Chinaman.
 Sitting on the fence;
 Trying to make a dollar
 Out offifteen cents.
 The Chinese laundryman chased white children with a red-hot iron
 and did all kinds of "mysterious and sinister things" in the back
 room of the laundry. He was a kidnapper of bad little boys, carrying
 them away in bags to unknown places. He became the neighbor
hood's Fu Manchu — the spooky crook, the bad guy, associated with
 murder and the darkness of night.-^^
 Actually, Chinese laundrymen were too busy trying to earn a
 living and survive. The little capital required to start a laundry was
 often borrowed from relatives. For example, the December 2, 1927
 entry of a laundryman's personal account showed that for a "new
 shop" he had borrowed one hundred dollars from Cousin T. H., one
 hundred dollars from Uncle H. K., twenty dollars from Uncle S. K.,
 and twenty dollars from Cousin W. T. On February 2, 1928, he
 borrowed ten dollars from Uncle S. L. to "pay rent." The capital
 could also come from the woi, a sort of "loan of the month club."
 Meaning "get together" or "put together," the woi was a collective
 loan fund organized by a small family or clan group composed of
 fifteen to thirty members and was one of the ways, possibly the "main
 way," for Chinese to finance their laundry enterprises. In the woi,
 each member placed an equal amount of money into a pool at the
 beginning of the first month of the year, and the total sum was then
 loaned to a member based on an interest rate ranging from 5 to 20
 percent. This process was repeated each month for a year. Every
 member made his regular contribution, and members with loans
 added the interest due.^^
 Once he had secured his loan and opened his business, the
 Chinese laundryman found himself working long hours. During his
 visit to a Chinese laundry, sociologist Paul Siu recorded the activities
242
 Necessity
 of the day. Like most laundrymen, Tong and his partners Hved in
 the back of the shop, and they woke early in the morning. At 8:00
 A.M., Tong went out to collect the laundry. Hong and Wah worked
 inside, attending the steam boiler and washtub. Ming sorted and
 marked laundry in the office. The noise of the washing machine
 drowned out their conversation. Tong returned with a load of dirty
 laundry in a wooden trunk and left again. The first wash was done,
 and Hong and Wah rinsed and wrung it then hung it to dry. About
 ten Tong was back, bringing a second load with him. It took an hour
 and a half to wash, rinse, wring, and then hang the clothes in the
 drying rooms. Around ten-thirty. Hong began to cook lunch. For
 lunch on busy days, they had cold meats and cakes with coffee. In
 the afternoon, they turned to the next set of tasks: Hong and Ming
 did most of the starching work, while Wah and Tong did the damping
 and ironing. Afterward Hong set the collars and cuffs on a machine,
 a chore that took him the whole afternoon and deep into the night.
 At eleven thirty, all the men ate their dinner. After supper, they all
 sat in the yard to cool off before they went to bed, and they finally
 were able to fall asleep at one in the morning.^^
 "Ah, those days were hard ones," a retired laundry operator
 sighed. "It is very hard to work at the laundry. They don't call it
 'Eight Pound Livelihood' for nothing." The weight of the iron, filled
 with red-hot charcoal, seemed to symbolize their burdensome toil.
 Laundrymen had to stand all day. "My feet bothered me," an old
 man said. "I could no longer stand too long on my feet." But even
 younger men felt the daily wear and tear on their bodies. "I don't
 like this kind of life; it is not human life. To be a laundryman is to
 be just a slave. I 
work because I have to," one of them moaned. "I
 feel backaches all the time and headaches. I 
am not an old man yet,
 but I feel old." Their lives seemed to be measured by the pieces washed
 and ironed.
 One piece, two pieces, three pieces.
 The clothes must be washed cleanly,
 Four pieces, five pieces, six pieces.
 The clothes must be ironed smoothly. . . .
 You say laundry is really cheap work;
 And only the Chinamen are willing to be so
 low. . . .
 Really, I, too, don't believe there is a future in it.
Ethnic Islands
 Washing people's sweat with your own blood
 and sweat.
 Would you do thatf Wouldn't you do thatf
 Year after year, with a nostalgic drop of tear;
 Deep at night, by the flickering laundry light?"^
 243
 Working and living in their small shops located in white neigh
borhoods, the laundrymen felt caged. "Nobody can imagine such a
 hfe as ours in the 'Golden Mountain,' " a laundryman lamented in
 frustration. "I have been confined in this room for more than two
 years. Sometimes I feel so lonesome in this small jail, I just want to
 go back to China." Many of them led lives of quiet resignation,
 working to earn enough money for a place to sleep and something
 to eat and taking life as it was: "I can't expect a life better than this
 and it is no use to try."^^
 Their loneliness was underscored by the absence of Chinese
 women. There were still few Chinese women in America; 80 percent
 of the Chinese population was male in 1930. But there were women
 in the world of the laundrymen: many were their customers. "There
 are two sisters [white] in this neighborhood, pretty and good na
tured," confided a laundryman. "When they come to call for their
 laundry, they act very friendly. I 
know they are just working girls,
 employed in a downtown department store as saleswomen. Some
 people may get sentimental ideas about the girls, but I, no matter
 how friendly they are, just look upon them as customers." Chinese
 laundrymen knew they had to keep socially distant from white
 women in their shops or else they would be run out of town. Some
 visited prostitutes. "They are just instruments to relieve sex tension,"
 observed one laundryman. The men could find prostitutes on the
 street [cheeh-gai) or in certain hotels {tsu-ga, or "home town"). But
 then they had to worry about venereal disease; they said it would be
 better to have a secret liaison with a lao-kai, a sweetheart. The long
 separation from their wives in China made it difficult for many laun
drymen to remain faithful. "My wife in China? Oh, she can go and
 look for a lover too," a laundryman confessed to an interviewer. "I
 can't blame her. Of all the things I 
am doing here, I have no right
 to blame her if she does the same. She is also human, see."^^
 But perhaps, some laundrymen thought, hardships here would
 be only temporary, a stepping-stone to a better life in the homeland.
 "I have no other hope but to get my money and get back to China.
244
 Necessity
 What is the use of staying here; you can't be an American here. We
 Chinese are not even allowed to become citizens. If we were allowed,
 that might be a different story. In that case, I think many of us Chinese
 would not think so much of going back to China."^''
 Not permitted to make America their home, laundrymen day
dreamed about the land they had left. Their motto was ''Fu-quai-re
quai-ku-shiung"
 —to return to the native village with wealth and
 distinction. In their imagination, they saw themselves going home
 with presents
 —with perfumed toilet soap {gum shan shee 
—
 "Golden Mountain fragrance"), a sewing machine, and even a radio
 for their wives. They would be admired by the villagers. Aiya, they
 would be so fancy, so "extravagant." They would swagger down the
 village streets and show off by speaking to one another in English.
 They would describe their Yee-Sheong Kuan ("clothing house" 
—
 their euphemism for laundry) and would build a Chuo-sai-kai
 (wealthy home) and sponsor "big affairs" like the weddings of their
 children.^^
 But most laundrymen did not make it back to China. Instead
 they became Lo Wah Kiu 
— old overseas Chinese who had stayed
 in America too long and had little chance of returning home. "We
 Chinese who are in this country are like convicts serving a term,"
 protested a laundryman who had been here for over twenty years.
 To shorten their terms some tried gambling. One laundryman worked
 hard to save about fifteen hundred dollars and planned to use the
 money to open a restaurant. But his plan fell apart when his partner
to-be pulled out of the business scheme. Lacking sufficient funding
 for the restaurant, the laundryman decided to take a chance by gam
bling. "I thought if I could win about three more thousands," he
 later said regretfully, "I would go back to China instead of opening
 a restaurant. I kept on gambling until I lost everything, within two
 weeks."-^^
 But Chinese laundrymen were not only mired in the fantasies
 and problems of being sojourners: they also engaged in acts of re
sistance, claiming their rights as members of their adopted society.
 In New York during the early 1930s, for example, large-scale laun
dries owned by whites introduced washing machines and steam
 presses to cut costs. Lacking the capital required to mechanize,
 Chinese laundries offered lower prices and extra services such as free
 mending and pickup and delivery. The white laundry operators re
sponded by forming a citywide trade organization and setting min
imum prices for laundrywork. Unable to force their Chinese
Ethnic Islands
 245
 competitors to raise their rates, they called for a boycott of Chinese
 laundries. Then, in 1933, they persuaded the New York Board of
 Aldermen to pass a laundry ordinance requiring a twenty-five-dollar
 annual registration fee and that one-person laundries applying for a
 license post a thousand-dollar bond. The bond requirement was
 clearly intended to drive small Chinese operators out of the laundry
 business, for they simply could not pay such a large sum of money.^°
 Anxious and angry, hundreds of Chinese laundrymen protested
 against the new ordinance. On April 16, 1933, they attended a mass
 meeting sponsored by the Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Associ
ation. But they quickly saw that the CCBA was more interested in
 collecting so-called "fees" from them than in fighting for their rights.
 Shortly afterward some of the laundrymen organized an independent
 laundry association
 —the Chinese Hand Laundry Alliance. More
 than twenty-four hundred joined this trade organization. Its lead
ership was democratically elected by the membership and its purpose
 was to unite Chinese laundrymen in a collective effort to defend and
 advance their interests. "Most of us had no capital to start a successful
 business," the CHLA declared. "Thus we ended up selling our labor
 in the laundry trade. This trade became the mainstay of Chinese
 survival in the United States." Employing the expertise of two law
yers, the CHLA challenged the bond ordinance: the alliance argued
 that the bond discriminated against small laundries and successfully
 pressured the Board of Aldermen to reduce the bond to one hundred
 dollars.^^
 Isolated in white neighborhoods, Chinese laundries were con
nected to larger segregated ethnic islands in American cities 
— the
 Chinatowns. In 1920, concentrations of Chinese were present in Los
 Angeles, Oakland, Chicago, Seattle, Portland, Sacramento, and Bos
ton. Forty percent of all Chinese lived in two cities 
— San Francisco
 and New York. The metropolitan Chinatowns developed a different
 character and purpose from the initial nineteenth-century China
towns. They were no longer way stations to service single-male work
ers in transit to the gold fields, farms, and railroads. While they
 remained a place of refuge for a bachelor society, Chinatowns became
 residential communities for families, Chinese economic enclaves, and
 tourist centers.^^
 The Chinese had been residentially restricted to the "colony"
 for a long time. In the nineteenth century San Francisco's Chinatown
 had been a male rookery. According to an 1885 investigation, there
Z46
 Necessity
 were 14,552 bunks for single men in ten blocks of Chinatown. After
 1900, as families increasingly occupied one-room units in Chinatown,
 problems of overcrowding became even more severe. "A Chinaman
 cannot secure a residence outside of Chinatown, in San Francisco,
 no matter how much he may offer for it," said Ng Poon Chew, editor
 of Chung Sat Yat Po. "I endeavored to obtain a home nearer my
 newspaper office in San Francisco but found it utterly impossible and
 have always been compelled to live in the Chinese quarters." "Only
 a very few Chinese could find houses in American districts," Mills
 College student Esther Wong wrote in 1924, "for most house owners
 do not want Chinese tenants. They are forced to live in close quarters.
 The buildings are . . . 
dark and gloomy, with no bath rooms and no
 privacy." Single men had to share a room. "In 1913, all the cousins
 from the Liu family in my village had one big room so all the members
 could fit in it," recalled Wei Bat Liu, "and we slept in that room,
 cooked in that room, one room." During the depression of the 1930s,
 congestion in Chinatown intensified as unemployed and relief-seeking
 Chinese from rural areas migrated to San Francisco.^^
 In Chinatown in 1934, 276 families lived in 652 rooms, or
 cubicles, or 2.4 rooms per family. They had seventy bathrooms, or
 four families per bathroom, and 114 kitchens, or 2.4 families per
 kitchen. The average number of persons per bathroom was 20.4 and
 per kitchen 12.3. Six years later, 15,000 Chinese lived in a confined
 area only five blocks by four blocks in size, their residential spaces
 wedged between, above, and below shops, restaurants, and stores.
 Of the 3,830 dwelling units in Chinatown, a city housing authority
 report revealed, approximately 3,000 had no heating. "Buildings
 constructed after the fire to house single men on a bare existence
 basis
 —that is, containing tiny windowless rooms with hall toilets
 and kitchens and often no bath facilities anywhere 
— now housed
 families." Chinatown was a slum. Eighty-two percent of Chinese
 dwellings were substandard, compared to only 20 percent for the
 rest of the city's population. The tuberculosis rate in Chinatown was
 three times higher than the rate for the other residential areas of San
 Francisco. The children were forced to play in the streets, for China
town had no parks.^"^
 A ghetto, Chinatown confirmed views of the Chinese as un
healthy, unassimilable, and undesirable immigrants, yet this same
 negative imagery opened the way to the development of Chinatown
 as a tourist center
 —a"quaint" and "mysterious" section of the city,
 a "foreign colony" in America. There, advertisements promised,
Ethnic Islands
 247
 white tourists could experience the "sounds, the sights, and the smells
 of Canton" and imagine themselves in "some hoary MongoHan city
 in the distant land of Cathay." They could "wander in the midst of
 the Orient while still in the Occident" and see throngs of people with
 "strange faces" in the streets and also "a few Ah Sins, bland and
 childlike as Bret Harte's immortal hero," sitting in restaurants and
 eating "chop suey."^^
 Behind the glitter of Chinatown's exotic image was the tourist
 economy. The importance of tourist profits was highlighted even as
 early as 1900 when rumors of an outbreak of bubonic plague in
 Chinatown were circulated and the Chinese Merchants' Association
 quickly passed resolutions to support the Dragon Festival scheduled
 for the summer and to reassure frightened tourists. After the 1906
 earthquake, Chinatown had to be completely rebuilt, and many city
 merchants were worried when they saw that the first structures ap
peared to be cream-colored nonentities. They wanted the section to
 have an "Oriental atmosphere," and were pleased that the new build
ing for the telephone company in Chinatown resembled a Chinese
 temple. Aware of the profits tourism promised, the Chinese Six Com
panies began an active campaign to promote this new economic
 development. In 1909 they published a guidebook, San Francisco's
 Chinatown, which gave tourists information about the community
 and offered assurances they would be safe: "Visitors in Chinatown
 need fear no harm from members of the Chinese race."^^
 The mainstream media joined the promotional campaign. In a
 series of articles on "Historic Chinatown" published in 1917, the
 San Francisco Chronicle predicted that the "Oriental Quarter" with
 its "exotic atmosphere" stood on the "threshold of the greatest era
 of development it [had] ever known." Thanks to the great fire of
 1906, the newspaper stated, Chinatown had been rebuilt: the new
 quarter was "thoroughly modern" while retaining its "Oriental
 charm and attractiveness." Moreover, the fire had destroyed the re
sorts and habitats of the Chinese underworld. "Some persons, those
 not familiar with the district, have the mistaken idea that when one
 enters Chinatown, particularly at night, one is in imminent danger
 of losing either one's Hfe or one's purse." Such a fear was unwar
ranted, for the "Oriental colony" was well policed. But the "greatest
 safeguard" was the fact that the Chinese people were "honest and
 law-abiding," glad to be visited by their "American neighbors."
 Newspapers assured tourists that they could comfortably experience
 the culinary art of the Chinese. "Patrons of the Chinese cafes and
248
 Necessity
 restaurants who may not be familiar with the Chinese method of
 ordering," the San Francisco Chronicle informed its readers encour
agingly, "find it is the policy of the management to aid visitors in
 selecting a repast without going to any great expense."^-^
 A leading force behind the development of Chinatown's tourist
 business, the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce disseminated full
page illustrated advertisements extolling "the exotic beauty and al
luring features of its Chinese colony." The promotional campaign
 made Chinatown "the chief jewel in San Francisco's starry diadem
 of tourist attractions." The Grayline Bus Company also participated
 in the Chinatown tourist trade; in 1935 it proudly announced it had
 introduced more than 10,000 tourists to Chinatown that year. In
 1938 Chinatown merchants formed the Chinese Factors Incorporated
 and spearheaded a plan for increasing the flow of tourist dollars into
 Chinatown and the city. Their plan included recommendations for
 the conversion of back alleys into picturesque lanes, the proliferation
 of Chinese architecture and decorations in Chinatown, and the revival
 of Chinese pageantry. The Chinese New Year, celebrated in February,
 became a great "tourist catcher." By 1938 San Francisco was drawing
 a tourist trade of $28 million, of which nearly one fifth was spent
 in Chinatown. This "little ward of Canton," the Chinese Digest
 proclaimed in an editorial, had become the city's second most at
tractive and unique spot, next to Golden Gate Park. Grant Avenue
 merchants promoted the "exotic Oriental charm of Chinatown" be
cause it 
made "good business talk." Tourism led to the introduction
 of a new dessert 
— the Chinese fortune cookie. White tourists ex
pected some sort of dessert in Chinese restaurants, and a worker in
 the Kay Heong Noodle Factory developed an ear-shaped cookie con
taining a small slip of paper with a Chinese proverb.^^
 Tourism reflected the development of Chinatown's ethnic econ
omy, where employment was available to Chinese workers. The labor
 unions and discrimination had forced Chinese workers out of the
 general labor market. "The Chinese kept existing because they were
 still used as domestic labor, because they were able to make a living
 among themselves, and also by selling art objects and relics," said
 Jack Wong. During the Great Depression of the thirties, tourism was
 viewed as a solution to the problem of unemployment among the
 Chinese. Thousands of Chinese had been driven onto the relief rolls:
 in 1931, some 2,300 Chinese in San Francisco, almost one sixth of
 the city's entire Chinese population, received assistance from the State
 Relief Administration. Meanwhile young Chinese faced increasingly
Ethnic Islands
 249
 limited employment prospects. In 1935, the editor of the Chinese
 Digest noted how the tourist trade had become Chinatown's main
 source of revenue and urged the community to do everything it could
 to protect its "golden goose." "Where will our bazaars be within a
 few years, if no visitors come to Chinatown?" he asked. "Where will
 our fancy chop suey neon signs end up? . . . 
Where can the younger
 generation turn to, to find any employment outside of Chinatown?"
 Tourism had become the economic lifeblood of the community, and
 the strategy for Chinatown was clear: "Make tourists want to come;
 and when they come, let us have something to show them!"^^
 Tourists were shown a fantasy land, a strange place they had
 read about in Bret Harte's stories and had seen in Hollywood movies
 about Fu Manchu and Charlie Chan. Guided through the narrow
 alleys of this "wicked Orient," tourists were warned by white guides
 to stick together and not to stray from the group lest a hatchet man
 get them. The visitors peered into the dark shadows of the dimly
 lighted alleys "lit by flickering gas jets, which increased the sense of
 mystery" and saw "evil-looking Chinamen, in the employ of the
 guides, slink back and forth, carrying knives and hatchets and pro
viding atmosphere and local color." The tourists were told about
 dark, underground tunnels filled with opium dens, gambling joints,
 and brothels where slave girls were imprisoned. They were even taken
 to fake opium dens, led down ladders to a strange subterranean world
 where smokers were "sunk in the bestial lethargy or the ecstatic
 dreams inspired by the drug." They were also shown "false lepers,"
 and as they toured the markets of Chinatown, they were told that
 certain cuts of meat in the Chinese butcher shops were "carcasses of
 rats."40
 " You read about underground tunnels in old Chinatown?" Gim
 Chang, who had grown up in Chinatown and then operated a busi
ness there for decades, told an interviewer in the 1970s. "I know
 nothing about them. I'm quite sure they didn't exist at all." But the
 tourist business fostered and exploited this sensational image of
 Chinatown. "Much to the opposition of the respectable Chinese,"
 Florence Chinn observed in 1920, "the horrors and vices of the San
 Francisco Chinatown were heralded to the world" and "misrepre
sentations" were "forced" upon the Chinese by the tourist industry.
 Chinese children also resented the tourist invasions and the distor
tions presented to the visitors and would follow the tours and shout
 "Har" at the guides. "Many of the guides created false impressions
 in the minds of tourists, concerning Chinese habits and life," com
250
 Necessity
 plained Esther Wong in 1924. Once a tourist had wandered into the
 Chinese YWCA and asked "in broken EngHsh for the location of the
 underground dungeons and opium dens." Told that no such places
 existed, he "was quite disappointed and 'Chinatown' lost its glamour
 to him."4i
 The second largest Chinatown was in New York City. "The
 Chinatown began with the establishment some thirty-five years ago
 of the Wo Kee Company's tea store in Mott Street," a writer for
 Harper's Weekly reported in 1907. "At that time a Chinaman was
 a sight to be stared at in the streets of New York." The Chinese
 population increased from 120 in 1870 to 853 in 1880 to 2,559 ten
 years later. As Chinese newcomers gathered in the city, they expanded
 their colony to Doyers, Pell, Bayard, and Canal streets and moved
 into tenements previously inhabited by Irish and German families.
 Directly east of Chinatown was Third Avenue and the Bowery. After
 the turn of the century, the Chinese population in New York rose
 rapidly from 4,614 in 1910 to 12,753 thirty years later, with half of
 them living in three tracts of Chinatown. The ratio of males to females
 among the Chinese in New York was a high six to one, compared
 to only two to one in San Francisco. New York's Chinatown was
 mainly a community of bachelors living in small, crowded rooms
 and apartments. "The Engs, we are all cousins, so we grouped up,"
 said Gene Eng. "Six to ten of us chipped in for this apartment. All
 the expenses are paid by the whole group but those who are out of
 work can stay there too." In 1940, only 28 percent of the Chinese
 in New York City were American-born, compared to 58 percent in
 San Francisco. The Chinese community in New York, still largely
 composed of a bachelor and immigrant population, had not advanced
 as far as San Francisco's Chinatown in becoming a settled and family
 society.'*^
 But New York's Chinatown had also become a gilded ghetto.
 Originally its inhabitants were mainly involved in cigar manufactur
ing, and its grocery stores, herb shops, barbershops, and restaurants
 catered to Chinese. During the 1890s, the area began to attract tour
ists. They read in King's Handbook of New York City: "Mott, Pell
 and Doyers streets and vicinity are now given over to the Chinese. . . .
 The district is a veritable 'Chinatown' with all the filth, immorality,
 and picturesque foreignness which that name implies." After the turn
 of the century, the tourist trade in New York's Chinatown became
 a booming business. Chuck Connors, known as the "mayor of
 Chinatown," guided tourists around the district, which he called his
Ethnic Islands
 251
 "reservation." Connors and his thuggish guides lured visitors into
 their tours, saying they would be escorted safely through the men
acing dark alleys. The guides hired Chinese and put on shows for
 their guests: in one performance, "opium crazed" Chinese men fought
 with knives in a battle over a slave girl. Soon bus companies entered
 the tourist trade, conducting tours through Chinatown's curved nar
row streets lined with curio shops, stores, and restaurants. As the
 gawking tourists rode by in sightseeing buses, they listened to lurid
 tales about "tong murders," "opium dens," and "slave girls"; they
 also visited the Joss House, an attraction maintained by the bus
 company. While tourists were shown the filthy alleys and told stories
 about the peculiar Chinese habit of eating rats, they were also en
couraged to dine in Chinatown and reassured they did not have to
 worry about unsanitary conditions. "A visit to Chinatown," the New
 York City Guide of 1939 recommended, "should include dinner at
 one of the numerous restaurants declared by the Board of Health to
 be among the cleanest in the city.""*^
 Chinatowns in San Francisco and New York and across the
 country were cultural islands, cut off from the mainland of American
 society, perceived by whites as strange places to visit as tourists. By
 the 1930s, many of the sensational practices of the tourist trade were
 gone. But still the economy of Chinatowns was mainly a service one,
 much of it dependent on the external society. "Wherever the Chinese
 are," observed Rose Hum Lee in 1942, "it has been possible to count
 the variations in the ways they can earn their living on the fingers of
 out. . .
 the hand 
— chop suey and chow mein restaurants, Chinese art and
 gift shops, native grocery stores that sell foodstuffs imported from
 China to the local Chinese community and Chinese laundries."'*'*
 One Chinese-American business did become a huge financial
 success. While it was not dependent on tourism and not located in
 Chinatown, Joe Shoong's enterprise was connected to Chinatown,
 especially its labor supply. In 1903 Shoong opened the China Toggery
 dry-goods store in Vallejo, California. After the 1906 earthquake,
 he moved his store to San Francisco; his business did well and Shoong
 added branch stores in Cahfornia, Oregon, and Washington. In 1928,
 he had sixteen stores and renamed his enterprise the National Dollar
 Stores. "Do you know why they call it the National Dollar Store?"
 said Kenneth Lim, a manager for over thirty years. "In the beginning
 they sold the goods for nothing over a dollar. That's how they started
 .Clothing, everything, was under one dollar." Lim described
 the early and exciting success of the store: "It's just crowded like
252
 Necessity
 anything, because they sold at a pretty low margin. Sometimes, even
 if it was just a little over a dollar, they sold it for a dollar, and when
 we had that kind of a sale (famous quality sheets), we used to open
 up a box, with so many hundred sheets. We collect the money and
 ring it up, so it was fast. Oh, everything was really fast." All of the
 National Dollar Stores stockholders were Chinese, with Shoong own
ing 51 percent of the stocks. His stores had Chinese managers, but
 90 percent of the workers were white and nearly all of the customers
 were white."^^
 But, while the workers up front in the stores were white, the
 workers behind the scene were Chinese. In fact, Shoong's business
 relied heavily on the exploitation of Chinese labor: the women's
 dresses sold in the National Dollar Stores were manufactured by low
paid unorganized Chinese garment workers employed in San Fran
cisco's Chinatown. In 1937 they organized themselves into the
 Chinese Ladies Garment Workers, an affiliate of the International
 Ladies Garment Workers Union, and struck against the garment
 factory owned by the National Dollar Store. Their strike lasted thir
teen weeks, the longest in Chinatown's history, but the workers lost
 when their employer closed the factory rather than yielding to their
 demands. Shoong could simply open a new factory elsewhere, for
 his success had made him very wealthy. By then he was the owner
 of thirty-seven stores, one as far east as Kansas City, and their sales
 totaled $7 million. Shoong himself received $141,000 in salary and
 $40,000 in dividends and was described by Time magazine as "the
 richest, best-known Chinese business man in the U.S.'"*^
 But Shoong and a few other wealthy Chinese businessmen were
 exceptional. The overwhelming majority of Chinese were trapped in
 Chinatowns and in dead-end jobs. Excluded from areas of employ
ment reserved for whites, Chinese workers were forced to work for
 Chinese employers. According to the 1940 U.S. Census, 61 percent
 of the Chinese in the labor force were manual laborers, almost all
 of them working in laundries, garment factories, and restaurants.
 They were concentrated in the service industry 
— 36 percent com
pared to only 7 percent for whites in this sector. "We overseas Chinese
 live in a coop twenty-four hours a day," wrote Lao Mei, describing
 the lives of restaurant workers in 1940. "We work long hours, our
 physical body takes the toll, and we must also deal with a dry and
 boring emotional life." Very few Chinese were in crafts 
— only one
 percent compared to 20 percent for whites. Twenty-nine percent of
Ethnic Islands
 253
 Chinese women workers were in domestic service, 26 percent in
 clerical and sales, and 26 percent in manufacturing. U.S. citizenship
 and an American education did not offer much advantage to workers
 of Chinese ancestry: 59 percent of them were in manual labor. Sizable
 numbers of both American-born and foreign-born Chinese were man
agers and owners of small businesses 
— 19 percent and 21 percent
 respectively. The Chinese community was divided into laborers and
 merchants."*^
 Viewed from within, Chinatown was not a quaint ghetto, an
 attraction for tourists. For the people living there, the colony was
 their home and community — a place where they could live "a
 warmer, freer, and more human life among their relatives and friends
 than among strangers." The grocery stores of their wa fau, or Chinese
 market town, stocked familiar foods
 —Chinese cabbage, dried
 mushrooms, salted fish {horn yee), canned lichees, soy sauce, sea
 cucumber {hoy torn), bamboo shoots, shark fins, "bird's nest," dried
 boned ducks' feet, salted duck eggs {horn don), bean sprouts, Chinese
 roast duck, and fresh ("aHve") chicken shipped in daily by Chinese
 chicken farmers in the country. The clothing stores sold pants and
 shoes that fit the Chinese. In Chinatown, there were newspapers in
 Chinese available, herb shops, Chinese theaters, and barbershops
 where residents could have their hair cut and done properly. China
town restaurants served bachelors cheap but tasty food and offered
 lavish, nine-course dinners to wealthy Chinese famiHes, especially on
 Sundays. In their community were their temples, Chinese-language
 schools, and centers for family associations. In Chinatown some of
 the stores served as post offices: "Folks in Canton usually wrote to
 their relatives in the United States in care of these stores." In the
 outside world, among whites, the Chinese felt they had to be reserved
 and silent. But among themselves in Chinatown they could untie their
 tongues, for they liked to "talk, and talk loudly." In Chinatown
 restaurants, after the lunch crowds had disappeared, waiters and
 cooks would gather around, "with a cup of tea or coffee, and shoot
 the breeze. One would say something; another would respond. Every
body would be yapping to his liking, freely and naively. There wasn't
 an agenda of topics, but it usually covered a variety of subject
 matters
 —from national news to world affairs. The subject of sex
 was the most talked about . . . 
everybody had his story to tell."
 Chinatown to its inhabitants was "a home away from home, where
 the Chinese felt at ease and the Americans became the foreigners."
254
 Necessity
 Inside Chinatown, they could tell jokes and laugh among themselves
 and hear folktales told and retold, creating "the illusion" that China
town was "really China.'"^^
 Chinatown had also become a place where children lived. The
 immigration of Chinese women after the 1906 San Francisco earth
quake led to the formation of families in the Chinese community. In
 1900, only 11 percent of the Chinese population were American
born. Children were rare: only 3.5 percent of the Chinese were under
 fifteen years of age, compared to 34.7 percent of the general popu
lation. "The greatest impression I have of my childhood in those days
 was that at that time there were very few families in Chinatown,"
 recalled a resident. "Babies were looked on with a kind of wonder."
 Children were "petted" by the Chinese bachelors. But the American
born Chinese group grew quickly to 41 percent of the population in
 1930 and 52 percent ten years later. The exclusion laws and the
 proportionately few Chinese women in America had delayed the
 formation of Chinese families in America: a second generation existed
 in the nineteeth century but a sizable American-born Chinese pop
ulation did not really emerge until the twentieth century.'*^
 To make space for their children, parents tore down the walls
 of rooms and transformed old bachelors' quarters into apartments
 for families. "Our room was designed for the old bachelors who used
 to come over here," said a second-generation Chinese."All my father
 did was break down some of the walls and we lived there over the
 store." As a child growing up in San Francisco's Chinatown, Frank
 Eng lived with his parents and seven siblings in "one big room"
 attached to the family store: "What they did, you see, was divide the
 whole room. There was a high ceiling and they just built another
 floor between the ceiling and the regular floor, and we lived on top."
 Effie Lai's family lived in their garment factory: "When we lived on
 Clay Street in San Francisco my father rented a store there. The front
 was the factory, the back was where we lived. . . . 
And my father
 had the long cutting table. We slept there too. Daytime it was a
 cutting table, nighttime it was our bed."^°
 In their Chinatown world, children watched their parents at
 work — laundrymen expertly wielding hot irons over hong-choong
 (ironing beds), seamstresses operating sewing machines in noisy gar
ment factories, and cooks chopping carrots and celery in cramped
 restaurant kitchens. "Always cut them like this [at a forty-five-degree
 angle]," they told the children. The youngsters noticed how their
^
 255
 Ethnic Islands
 parents were powered by "necessity," working long hours: "My
 father would get up and leave the house about six in the morning
 and not close the store until almost nine at night. So what's that?
 Fifteen hours?" The children worked, too. "If your parents had a
 business definitely you're going to stay around to help. You don't
 even demand to be paid because it's your duty to do so." After school
 each day, the children did their share of work, peeling shrimp and
 cutting onions in the alley behind the family restaurant and loading
 dirty clothes into the washing machines of the family laundry. "I
 began by helping my parents fold towels and handkerchiefs, very
 simple things," one of them said years later. "When I got to be eight
 or nine years old they showed me how to work the presses and I
 went from T-shirts and handkerchiefs to complicated things like
 shirts." Younger children accompanied their mothers to the factory.
 "My mother tied me to her back and sewed," recalled Victor Wong,
 who was a child in San Francisco's Chinatown during the 1930s.
 "The constant drum of sewing machines. The chatter of Cantonese.
 The F car rolling and rumbling from somewhere through Stockton
 Street near the tunnel. Stop; screeching and ding-ding off again to
 somewhere not Chinatown."^
 That "somewhere," the children discovered, could be very un
friendly. "In those days, the boundaries were from Kearny to Powell,
 and from California to Broadway," an old-timer remembered. "If
 you ever passed them and went out there, the white kids would throw
 stones at you." Chinese parents repeatedly warned their children
 about "the whites out there," the "foreign devils" (the fan qui), and
 the "western people" (the sai yen): "Don't go too far because the
 white people are against you. They may throw a rock or do something
 to hurt you." Japanese immigration was already under way by the
 time the Chinese second generation had begun to form, and Chinese
American youth were sometimes called "Japs." Mistaken for Japa
nese, Chinese children were also told to get out of white-owned
 barbershops. "How do you know we're Japs?" they sometimes
 snapped. More often they were denounced as "Chinks" and
 "Chinamen.""
 Their parents tried to prepare them for the anti-Chinese prej
udice they would experience in the larger society. "Be proud that
 you're Chinese," they told their children. "Yes, legally you are Amer
icans, but you will not be accepted. Look at your face 
— it is Chinese.
 But don't worry, just show them how smart you are because you
256
 Necessity
 have a superior heritage." "Don't pay any attention to the names
 the white children call you. They're just barbarians! Just be as nice
 as possible to them, because you have a superior culture."^^
 Still the racial slurs stung and the rejection hurt. "The children
 weren't nice to us at all," recalled Alice Fong Yu. "They yelled these
 obscenities to us each time we would be approaching the school:
 'Ching Chong Chinamen sitting on a rail,' and oh, funny sounds,
 like 'eeyauyau-yauyau!'
 —things like that." Lillie Leung remembered
 how she was called a "Chink" and "resented it bitterly." Him Mark
 Lai said he was never near whites until he had entered junior high
 school and there they made him feel "uncomfortable," like an "out
sider." High-school student Sun Lee told a Stanford interviewer in
 1924 that the boys talked "rudely" to him and charged he was "not
 a citizen." "Even though their words hurt me I have never been
 ashamed of being a Chinese and never have I wished I 
were a white
 man." Called "chink" by the other students, a Chinese youth said:
 "It didn't anger me. I just thought, well, there are people in this world
 who are ignorant, so why get into a fight?" But other Chinese boys
 saw it differently. "When someone would call me 'Chink,' " Jack
 Don snarled, "I didn't like that. So, big or small, I didn't care what
 you were, I'd straighten that up right now." On one occasion during
 a study period in high school. Jack was approached by a white student
 who wanted to know how to work on a problem: "Hey, Chink, how
 do you do this?" Jack promptly gave him an answer with his fist.
 The teacher came over and asked what had happened, and Jack
 replied: "Well, he wanted some help with a problem and I'm showing
 him the chinky way of doing it."^"*
 But the children were often instructed by their parents to absorb
 the abuse and concentrate instead on their studies. The immigrant
 generation hoped their children would help them recover their dig
nity. "Our parents used the children to vent their frustration on,
 trying to get us all to get ahead,'' Victor Wong explained. "And there
 was a lot of frustration inside of Chinatown, too, because the Chinese
 felt themselves to be such noble creatures, and yet they were sub
jugated, they were discriminated against, they couldn't leave the area,
 they couldn't buy houses, they couldn't get any kind of job."^^
 Though they had come from a "different shore" than their
 European counterparts and had been forced to be "strangers" in
 America, many immigrants began to feel a new closeness to their
 adopted country as they became parents of children born here.
 "America is 
my new home because she has become my children's
Ethnic Islands
 257
 home," said a mother. "She is 
my country now because she is the
 mother country of my children." Through their children they had
 connected themselves to the land here, and many parents sacrificed
 for their children to make it possible for them to have what had been
 denied to the immigrant generation. They urged their children to
 study hard so that they would not be victimized by racism as the
 first generation had been, suffering indignities and "eating bitter
ness," hec fu. "I've worked my fingers to the bones for you boys to
 get yourself an education," an immigrant father told his son. "If you
 cannot be better than they [whites] are, try to be their equal anyway,
 because that way, one of these days, you can be up there too."^^
 Searching for Bridges: Second-Generation Chinese Americans
 For the second-generation Chinese, education was viewed as the way
 to get "up there." In the old country, peasants were too poor to send
 their children to school; here the immigrants could enroll their chil
dren in public school. "Think of all the marvelous things you can
 learn here," Alice Yu's parents told her. "You can get one of the
 best educations here. This is a wonderful country. You can learn a
 lot here." The children went to the public schools, where they said
 the pledge of allegiance to the flag of the United States and learned
 about American culture. In American schools, they came under the
 influence of their teachers. Edward L. C. of San Francisco remem
bered how Mr. Weinstein first gave him the idea of citizenship and
 how Miss Davis and Mrs. Beck brought him "closer to American
 ideals and American patriotism." But to be American was to be
 acculturated. "In the English school they didn't believe in Chinese
 customs," recounted Victor Wong. The teachers tried to "dissuade
 us from speaking Cantonese; they tried to dissuade us from every
thing Chinese. Their view of the Chinese ways was that they were
 evil, heathen, non-Christian." One of his teachers scolded him: "If
 you're gonna be an American, ya might as well learn ta speak En
glish."^^
 But to their parents, they were also Chinese and had to learn
 the Chinese language and the culture of the old country. Conse
quently, after attending American school all day, the children went
 to Chinese school. "My Chinese school career began when I 
was 5
 years old," said Edward L. C. of San Francisco. "The school was on
 Grant Ave. We went to Chinese school immediately after American
 school which was about 4 or 5 p.m. and stayed there till about 7 or
 8 P.M." They also had classes at Chinese school on Saturday from 9
258
 Necessity
 A.M. to 1 P.M. There they learned Chinese language, history, litera
ture, and philosophy. Many of the children thought Chinese school
 was burdensome. "In the American schools they are anxious to get
 ahead of their classmates, while their attitude toward the Chinese
 learning is indifferent," observed Julia I. 
Hsuan Chen, herself a
 second-generation Chinese. "Consequently, the only language which
 the majority of the Chinese-Americans can read and write is English."
 Growing up in San Francisco's Chinatown in the 1920s, Thomas W.
 Chinn was sent to Chinese school. "Somehow," recounted Chinn,
 who founded the Chinese Digest in 1935, "we never became profi
cient in reading or writing Chinese
 —probably because we never
 thought of ourselves as needing Chinese. After all, weren't we Amer
icans?"^^
 Like the Nisei, the second-generation Chinese shuttled between
 the American school and their home. In the home, wrote Kit King
 Louis in an essay, "Problems of Second Generation Chinese" pub
lished in 1932, the two cultures met. There they also clashed. As they
 grew up, many second-generation Chinese saw America as their "per
manent home" and China as "remote and foreign." Many changed
 their given names 
— from Soo Fei to Fay, Wei Lim to William, Teong
 to Ted, Mei Guen to Mae Gwen, Yim Jun to Jean, Yim Sunn to
 Shelley, and Yoon to June. They viewed themselves as Americans
 and wanted their first names to identify them as such. They also
 wanted to look American. Mrs. E. M. Findlay, who worked for the
 Congregational Mission in San Francisco's Chinatown for twenty
seven years, described the Chinese youth in 1924: "The Chinese girls
 bob their hair, wear sleeveless dresses, and look just like the little
 American flappers." In their "extravagance," Chinese teenagers did
 not think too much about their daily mixing of the two cultures:
 "On weekends we'd go eat wonton and drink orange freeze at the
 soda fountain." Many youngsters saw themselves as modern. "My
 parents wanted me to grow up a good Chinese girl, but I 
am an
 American and I can't accept all the old Chinese ways and ideas,"
 explained Flora Belle Jan of Fresno in 1924. "A few years ago when
 my Mother took me to worship at the shrine of my ancestor and
 offer a plate of food, I decided it was time to stop this foolish custom.
 So I got up and slammed down the rice in front of the idol and said,
 'So long Old Top, I don't believe in you anyway.' " Sometimes the
 break from their parents and Chinese culture also involved self
rejection: "When I 
was young, before thirteen," admitted Grace Wen,
 "I used to wish I 
had light hair and blue eyes."^^
Ethnic Islands
 259
 Second-generation Chinese were sometimes given derisive ap
pellations by the immigrants: they were called ''t'oa fee doy"" (one
 who is ignorant about Chinese culture) and chok sing, or "bamboo
 pole," meaning empty inside. Second-generation girls were thor
oughly "occidentalized," as American as "pink lemonade in a Kansas
 fair," reported an American-born Chinese in an essay published in
 the Chinese Digest of 1939. "If you were to close your eyes for a
 moment, you'd be certain they were real Americans."^°
 Many American-born Chinese, especially the more educated
 youngsters, simply wanted more independence and more choice for
 themselves than their parents allowed. Chinese girls found they had
 to challenge traditional Chinese attitudes toward women. "My par
ents do not believe in freedom of women and children," asserted one
 of them. "I believe in complete freedom of women. A woman should
 be responsible to no one but herself." Betty Lee Sung, the daughter
 of a Chinese laundryman in Baltimore, broke from the expectations
 of her father: "My father did not want me to go on to college at all.
 He thought girls shouldn't have an education. He wanted me to get
 married, he wanted to match me with all sorts of men. And I didn't
 want to do that. I 
wanted to go to school. And he said, 'If you want
 to go to school and you disobey me, I'll disown you.' And I said,
 'Well, I'll just have to leave. Good-bye, papa.' " Independence meant
 the freedom to choose one's own spouse and to base one's marriage
 on love rather than family arrangement. When Naomi Jung turned
 eighteen years old, she resisted the efforts of her father to find a
 husband for her through a matchmaker. "Don't worry about me,"
 she bluntly told him. Similarly, Stanford University student Lillie
 Leung said to an interviewer in 1924: "My parents wanted to hold
 to the idea of selecting a husband for me, but I 
would not accept
 their choices. . . . 
We younger Chinese make fun of the old Chinese
 idea according to which the parents made all arrangements for the
 marriage of their children."^^
 But in reality the choice
 —to be Chinese or to be American
 —
 was not so clear-cut. Analyzing the "problem of American-born
 Chinese," Kit King Louis described their plight: "With their American
 ideas, thoughts, attitudes, and customs, they cannot feel at home
 with the Chinese people though they have a Chinese appearance.
 Because of their physical appearance, they are denied the opportu
nities to achieve the better social and economic status which they
 desire in the American community." But even Louis had failed to
 detect the stormy and at times subtle ambivalence many second
z6o
 Necessity
 generation Chinese experienced. "There was endless discussion about
 what to do about the dilemma of being caught in between . . . 
being
 loyal to the parents and their ways and yet trying to assess the good
 from both sides," commented Victor Wong. "We used to call our
selves just a 'marginal man,' caught between two cultures.""
 In actuality, second-generation Chinese Americans felt the
 pushes and pulls of two worlds 
— Chinese and American. "I think
 that both sides are pulling equally
 —one the land of freedom which
 was my birthplace, my home — the other, my parents' home, my
 race's abode and my motherland," explained Edward L. C. thought
fully. "To me they both hold the same attraction but sometimes
 America seems to get me more over China and I say that if any place
 shall be my home in the old age it shall be America. Now in regard
 to Americans
 —I love them just as well as my own race but they
 don't give us the same respect (this is just some, not all). They spite
 us, they hate us and they wish we were never in America." Like the
 Nisei, many second-generation Chinese felt isolated, as though they
 were islanded between two cultural continents.^^
 The tension between two identities was taut at times, especially
 for Chinese-American daughters. One of them was Jade Snow Wong,
 the fifth daughter in a Chinese family. She was not a typical second
generation Chinese American, for her father was a businessman and
 a Christian. Still she experienced many of the dilemmas of her con
temporaries. For Jade Snow Wong, growing up and coming of age
 in the country of her birth involved a complicated and often contra
dictory process. She found herself searching for a bridge from China
town to the larger society and for an identity that would allow her
 to be both Chinese and American.
 As a child. Jade Snow lived in San Francisco's Chinatown, a
 community separated from the outside, "foreign" American world.
 Her father operated a garment factory on Stockton between Clay
 and Sacramento streets, and her family occupied an apartment behind
 the business. The son of a merchant already here in America, her
 father had emigrated with his wife and children, arriving in San
 Francisco during the first decade of the twentieth century. Her
 mother, to whom her father referred as "my inferior woman," had
 "little, two-and-a-half inch, bound feet." Her father taughtJade Snow
 her first lessons from Chinese books, and her mother made her bright
 silk Chinese dresses for holidays such as Chinese New Year's Day,
 when she would sit on her father's shoulders to watch the lion dances.
 Her father believed that all Chinese children in America should learn
Ethnic Islands
 z6i
 their ancestral language, and one evening after dinner he announced
 to eight-year-old Jade Snow and the rest of the family that the time
 had come for her to be enrolled in a Chinese evening school. As his
 daughter, she was expected to know Chinese and to be familiar with
 China's great rivers, T'ang poetry, and the culture of the homeland.
 Jade Snow's ethnic identity was also framed by the family meals of
 rice and Chinese dishes, and, she discovered when her brother was
 born, by her gender.^"*
 Forgiveness from Heaven had been preceded by six girls, and
 his birth was the occasion for festive celebration in the Wong family.
 Jade Snow realized that Forgiveness from Heaven was more impor
tant to her parents because he was a boy and that she was "unal
terably less significant" than the new son. When Uncle Bing came to
 visit the family, he congratulated her father on the birth of a son,
 noting the boy's intelligent features. Jade Snow watched Uncle Bing
 tuck a coin into the baby's hand in accordance with customary prac
tice. As a boy. Forgiveness was qualified to receive special gifts from
 relatives and friends. He was also entitled to special support from
 his parents. Later they encouraged and sent him to college but re
quired Jade Snow to pay for her own college education. Her father
 explained the reasons for denying her request for help to meet college
 expenses. Sons perpetuated a family's ancestral heritage, and thus it
 was necessary that they have priority over daughters. Wong sons
 made pilgrimages to ancestral graves, while Wong daughters left
 home at marriage and joined their husband's families.^^
 But, by then. Jade Snow was no longer the "dutiful" daughter.
 She thought it was unfair to have gender determine her destiny,
 making her the carrier of the "heritage" for other names. She had
 been told by her mother that she should not pursue a career. To have
 "a natural or complete life" as a woman she should be a wife and
 mother. Jade Snow's life trajectory, as defined by her mother, had a
 particular Chinese meaning: women were extensions of men and had
 no existence apart from fathers and husbands and oldest sons. In the
 privacy of her bedroom. Jade Snow protested the unfairness of it all.
 "There are no ancestral pilgrimages to be made in the United States!
 I can't help being born a girl." She did not want to marry just to
 raise sons. "I am a person, besides being a female! Don't the Chinese
 admit that women also have feelings and minds?"^^
 Actually her father had cultivated a spirit of independence in
 Jade Snow. He was himself Western in many ways. Shortly after his
 arrival in San Francisco, he had been converted to Christianity by
z6i
 Necessity
 the Cumberland Presbyterian Chinese Mission. The mission taught
 him EngHsh at night school and educated him in a new doctrine of
 individualism, challenging his traditional Chinese thinking. These
 ideas extended to women. To his wife, who was still in China with
 their two oldest daughters, he had written: "Do not bind our daugh
ters' feet. Here in America is an entirely different set of standards,
 which does not require that women sway helplessly on little feet to
 qualify them for good matches as well-born women who do not have
 to work. Here in Golden Mountain, the people, and even women,
 have individual dignity and rights of their own." He wanted Jade
 Snow to have an American education, including training in Western
 music, and sent her to take piano lessons from Mrs. Schumann so
 she could play Beethoven, Chopin, and Mozart. "Education is your
 path to freedom," he told her. "In China, you would have had little
 private tutoring and no free advanced schooling. Make the most of
 your American opportunity."^'
 Jade Snow followed her father's advice. But her American ed
ucation reinforced a widening rift developing between herself and
 Chinese culture. In elementary school, she learned in the foreign
 language new songs such as "The Farmer in the Dell" and "London
 Bridge." She also memorized a poem aboutJack andJill. In the fourth
 grade. Jade Snow was struck by the loveliness of her new teacher:
 Miss Mullohand had wavy, blonde hair, fair skin, and blue eyes.
 One incident that Jade Snow would always remember occurred in
 the schoolyard. During a baseball game, she was accidentally hit on
 the hand by a carelessly flung bat. Hurt, she found herself held by
 her teacher, who gently rubbed her sore hand and wiped away her
 tears. Cuddled in a foreign lady's arms, she experienced a very strange
 feeling. She could not remember when her mother had embraced her
 to give her comfort. Jade Snow was now conscious that " foreign"
 American ways were different from Chinese ways not only generally
 but also specifically, and that the specific differences would involve
 a "choice of action." The comparison made her "uncomfortable."^^
 Young Jade Snow wove back and forth between her American
 and Chinese cultures. She "eagerly devoured" the comic strips 
—
 "Bringing Up Father," "Dick Tracy," and "The Katzenjammer
 Kids"
 —then did her Chinese lessons. She went to the nearby movie
 house, where she saw films about cowboys and Tarzan, and also
 attended plays at the Chinese theater. Still, there was a division be
tween the two worlds 
— a racial one, as Jade Snow learned. At the
 beginning of her seventh-grade year. Jade Snow enrolled in a junior
Ethnic Islands
 263
 high school outside of her neighborhood because her father did not
 want his daughter to study at a school where there were "tough"
 boys. There she found she was the only Chinese student, and she felt
 hesitant to make friends with the "foreign" classmates. One day,
 after school, a boy named Richard approached her and shouted:
 "Chinky, Chinky, Chinaman." Then he threw an eraser at her. Danc
ing around her gleefully, he teased: "Look at the eraser mark on the
 yellow Chinaman. Chinky, Chinky, no tickee, no washee, no shirtee!"
 Jade Snow dismissed Richard as ignorant. "Everybody knew," she
 thought to herself, "that the Chinese people had a superior culture."
 Her ancestors had created great works of art and had invented the
 compass, gunpowder, and paper.^^
 In high school Jade Snow decided she wanted to enter college
 but she had no money. So she did housework, cleaning and cooking
 for white families, hopeful that her savings plus a scholarship would
 provide sufficient funding for her to attend the University of Cali
fornia at Berkeley. But she failed to win a scholarship and decided
 to attend San Francisco Junior College.^^
 At San Francisco Junior College, Jade Snow took Latin, chem
istry, and sociology. The last course, taken simply to meet a re
quirement, "completely revolutionized her thinking, shattering her
 Wong-constructed conception of the order of things." One day, as
 Jade Snow sat casually in class, she heard her professor make what
 was for her a startling statement. During a lecture on the history of
 the family in American society, he argued that parents could no longer
 demand unquestioning obedience from their children and should rec
ognize the individuality and rights of young people. Relating the idea
 to her own situation, Jade Snow asked: "Could it be that Daddy and
 Mama, although they were living in San Francisco in the year 1938,
 actually had not left the Chinese world of thirty years ago? Could it
 be that they were forgetting that Jade Snow would soon become a
 woman in a new America, not a woman in old China?" Shortly
 afterward, as Jade Snow was leaving her house for a date with a
 boy, she was stopped by her father and was asked whether she had
 his permission to go out. "I can now think for myself," she answered,
 "and you and Mama should not demand unquestioning obedience
 from me." Insisting that she had "rights" of her own, she argued
 that she was not only his daughter but also an individual. Her dec
laration of independence shocked her father. "Where did you learn
 such an unfilial theory?" he demanded. "Do not try to force foreign
 ideas into my home."'^^
z64
 Necessity
 After Jade Snow graduated from junior college, she transferred
 to Mills College. She no longer attempted to bring the new, Western
 learning into her Chinese home. She abided. Visiting her parents
 during the weekends, she would slip into her old pattern of with
drawal, performing her usual daughterly duties; back at school, she
 would again become an individual.^^
 Still Jade Snow wanted recognition from her father. When he
 came to Mills College for her graduation ceremony in 1942, he visited
 the college art gallery with his daughter. There he saw some pottery
 Jade Snow had created in an art class. Impressed with her work, he
 told his daughter that her grandfather was artistically inclined and
 would have been pleased to see her handwork. Knowing it would
 not have been becoming for a Chinese daughter to say "Thank you"
 for an indirect compliment. Jade Snow properly replied: "Is that so?"
 Finally she felt appreciated, accepted, noting her pottery was more
 meaningful to her father than her "hard-earned Phi Beta Kappa key."
 Jade Snow Wong did not realize at the time how much her father's
 remark would influence her choice of a career.^^
 After graduating from college, Wong began her search for em
ployment, and during an interview she was told that she should try
 to find employment only in Chinese companies because American
 firms would discriminate against her. Later, while working as a sec
retary for the Navy, Wong decided she wanted to do something more
 interesting and important than answering the phone and typing let
ters. But she discovered she faced discrimination not only as a Chinese
 but also as a woman. When she asked her boss about possibilities
 for advancement, she was given "straight" advice and told bluntly
 that she should not compete for equal pay in a man's world.^"^
 Discouraged and depressed, Wong did something "extrava
gant": she retreated to the Santa Cruz Mountains for a vacation. She
 had to think about who she was and wanted to be. One morning
 she rose early and hiked on a mountain trail; sitting on a log in the
 shade of a bay tree, she thought about how she wanted to silence
 the narrow thinking of all the "Richards" and the "placement offi
cers." Suddenly she saw a new path opening before her. She would
 write about the Chinese experience, about herself; as a writer, a
 "woman would not be competing against men." In order to provide
 a living for herself, she would also sell her pottery. After Wong
 returned from the Santa Cruz Mountains, she wrote her autobiog
raphy. Fifth Chinese Daughter, published by Harper and Brothers
 in 1945, and also opened her own ceramics shop in Chinatown.''^
Ethnic Islands
 265
 Impressed by his daughter's business success, her father shared
 with Jade Snow a carbon copy of a letter he had written decades
 earlier. When he had first come to America, he had been urged by
 his cousin to return to China and had replied: "You do not realize
 the shameful and degraded position into which the Chinese culture
 has pushed its women. Here in America, the Christian concept allows
 women their freedom and individuality. I wish my daughters to have
 this Christian opportunity." After reading the letter to Jade Snow,
 he said: "It is good to have you home again!"^^
 Jade Snow Wong had made her own place in the world. But
 hers was a niche that reflected the limited opportunities available to
 second-generation Chinese Americans. Jade Snow Wong had grad
uated from Mills College, but she noticed that not one of her Amer
ican-Chinese high-school classmates had gone to college. In 1940
 American-born Chinese men had only 6.2 years of education, com
pared to 8.3 years for men in general. American-born Chinese women
 did as well as their female counterparts
 —8.6 years compared to 8.5
 years. "On account of economic pressures," explained JuHa Chen in
 1941, "the majority of second generation Chinese are forced to give
 up their studies after they finish high school. Most of their fathers
 are either restaurant keepers or laundrymen whose income is too
 small for sending children to colleges and universities."''^
 But second-generation Chinese did not want to follow their
 parents in "three-legged economic pursuits, such as being cooks or
 runners of chop-suey houses and laundries." They "detested working
 in Chinatown or manning the traditional Chinese trades." They
 wanted to break away from the immigrant status of their parents
 and hoped that education and employment in the professions and
 skilled occupations would advance them toward equality in American
 society. Some second-generation Chinese managed to pursue their
 education, but they encountered difficulties trying to get "up there."
 Educated, they were still unable to find employment in the higher
paying jobs and fields of their choices. Seeking to be judged on the
 basis of merit, they sadly discovered that employers were color
 conscious.78
 "Even if you had an education, there was no other work than
 in a laundry or restaurant," explained David Chin, himself the owner
 of a laundry in New York. When Stanford University student Pardee
 Lowe applied for a job as a chauffeur for a retired banker and his
 wife, he was asked during the interview: "You Chinee boy or Jap
 boy?" "Chinese, of course, but born in this country," he repUed,
z66
 Necessity
 amazed. Then she told him: "Me no likee, me no wantee Chinee
 boy." Seized with a "huge desire to laugh" by her effort to speak to
 him in pidgin English, Lowe burst out: "Mrs. Bitterns, I understand
 perfectly." Two Chinese engineers wrote to fifty engineering com
panies applying for positions in their field and received only negative
 responses. Similarly, Peter Soohoo graduated from the University of
 Southern California with a degree in electrical engineering in 1923;
 two years later he told a Stanford University researcher: "I have tried
 to get into the engineering field but thus far have not been able to
 do so." After completely failing to find a job as an engineer, a Chinese
 graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology became a
 waiter in a Chinese restaurant. In "Does My Future Lie in China or
 America," which was the winning essay for the Ging Hawk Club in
 1936, Robert Dunn of Harvard University wrote that his brother,
 "a graduate of M.I.T. last year, failed to receive a single favorable
 reply from different companies to which he sent letters of application
 for employment." Second-generation Chinese wondered whether
 they had a future outside of Chinatown. The Great Depression had
 made matters worse for them. "With thousands of fair-minded, blue
eyed collegians at his elbows, looking for a job, with thousands of
 similar tinted fellows working for a rais^, ready to take his place the
 moment he slips," asked a young Chinese American, "is there a
 chance for a person with a yellow skin?"''^
 Employment prospects for Chinese Americans were generally
 discouraging. In 1927, Laura McKeen, the executive secretary of the
 YWCA in San Francisco, informed a Stanford University researcher:
 "The employment situation is very difficult for the Chinese, partic
ularly for the American born Chinese, trained in the schools here.
 There are so few openings for the Chinese in the line of work he or
 she may have trained. If there is an opening, preference is, of course,
 given to the white applicant regardless of ability." The registrar of
 San Francisco State College told a student that she could enroll in a
 course. "But after the course," the registrar candidly added, "don't
 expect to be placed, because you are Chinese." Sometimes Chinese
 were placed, but they were paid less than whites. A Stanford graduate
 had been considered for a job by an American company, said King
way Jung. "The manager was willing to pay him $5,000 a year but
 one of his business associates said, '$4,000 is good enough. After all,
 he is a Chinese.' "^^
 Young Chinese workers were trapped in an ethnic and low
skilled labor market. "Chinese girls are employed in stores as stock
Ethnic Islands
 267
 girls, but not sales ladies." "They don't even hire you as a sales lady,
 except in those Chinese stores." Chinese women could get jobs as
 cigarette girls if they wore Chinese dresses, or as "atmosphere" in
 the theater lobby when a Charlie Chan movie was showing. In 1938,
 the Oriental Division of the U.S. Employment Service in San Francisco
 reported that 90 percent of its placements were in services, chiefly
 in the culinary trades, and that most firms discriminated against the
 Chinese, even well educated U.S. citizens. Three years later, as the
 defense program began to pull the economy out of the depression,
 the Christian Science Monitor observed: "Even though the Nation
 is crying for skilled workers, even though the California aircraft
 industry has combed the San Francisco market for skilled and semi
skilled workers, university-trained Chinese are passed by." Five thou
sand young Chinese in San Francisco seemed to have "no future
 worthy of their education," destined instead to "washing dishes,
 carrying trays, ironing shirts, cutting meat, drying fish, and selling
 herbs." After they had graduated from college, Chinese young people
 were told by some whites: "Go back to Chinatown where you be
long." Through the assistance of the Catholic Church, Emilie Lau
 was able to get a job as a file clerk in a San Francisco insurance
 company during the 1920s. "You have no right here," some whites
 told her. "By rights you should be in Chinatown, doing laundry."
 American-born Chinese women faced both racial and gender dis
crimination: 32 percent of them were clerks, 32 percent service work
ers, and 18 percent operatives, most of them garment-factory
 workers.^^
 Noting the employment discrimination second-generation
 Chinese faced, the San Francisco Chinese newspaper Chung Sai Yat
 Po advised them to "return" to China. "In the fields of agriculture
 and aviation, China is much lacking in Western knowledge. Unlimited
 opportunities are ahead. . . . 
Indeed, your future lies with China, not
 with America." Compared to America, China seemed to be a place
 where they would not have to worry about being rejected for a job
 because they were Chinese. A University of Washington student com
plained that the better jobs and career advancement were not avail
able to him in "this fair land." "Go Further West, Young Man," he
 thought, "yes, across the Pacific and to China." Louise Leung, a
 Stanford University student, told an interviewer in 1924: "The
 Chinese who are trained in the schools here do not expect to remain
 in the United States, but they are looking toward China for the
 future." Chinese college graduates had the education and qualifica
268
 tions
 Necessity
 —"everything but the color"
 —for professional employment
 in America. Some Chinese Americans actually did "return" to
 China.«2
 "We were all immigrants in those days, no matter where we
 were born," recalled Victor Wong bitterly. "Between the Chinese and
 the English education, we had no idea where we belonged. Even to
 this day, if I wanted to say, 'I'm going to China,' I 
would never say
 it that way; I 
would say 'go back to China.' Because I 
was taught
 from the time I 
was born that this was not my country, that I 
would
 have to go to China to make my living as an adult." The problem,
 the second generation could see, was plain: they "looked Chinese."
 But America was their country. Citizens by birth, they had attended
 American schools, and many had even graduated from college. As
 citizens, they expected to have greater opportunities available to
 them. But increasingly they became aware of the racial barriers
 erected against them and they woke up from "an illusion." Many
 felt disappointed and plunged into "emotional disturbance," Kit King
 Louis reported. Some found "satisfaction in returning to their own
 group," insisting they were "very proud to belong to the Chinese
 race." Many decided they should struggle for their rights as citizens,
 while others gave up their hopes of becoming full and equal citizens.
 All of them felt they were "strangers."*-^
 Chinese in America had realized for a long time how their sit
uation here was tied to developments in China. The very political
 weakness of the Chinese government conditioned their treatment here
 and influenced the anti-Chinese immigration policies of the U.S. gov
ernment. They supported the struggle for China's independence from
 foreign domination in order to free themselves in America. A strong
 China, they hoped, would mean greater protection and more rights
 for them here. But they watched their homeland increasingly victim
ized by imperialist powers, including Japan. In the Sino-Japanese
 War of 1894—95, China had been humiliated by Japan; then ten
 years later, in its victory over Russia, Japan buttressed its sphere of
 influence in China. During the 1930s, Chinese in the United States
 anxiously saw Japan systematically unveil its plan for control of
 China. On September 18, 1931, theJapanese army attacked Mukden,
 then marched into Manchuria. Five months later, Japan violently
 seized Shanghai.
 As they witnessed the terrible acts of Japanese aggression, second
generation Chinese felt a surge of nationalism, a deep concern for
 the homeland of their parents. In Chinese school they listened to the
Ethnic Islands
 269
 principal give speeches about how Chiang Kai-shek should do more
 to fight the Japanese. There was "a whole string of National Hu
miliation Days" 
— "the day when Japan forced the Twenty-one de
mands on Yuan Shih-kai, that was on May 9, then September 28,
 the Mukden Incident, January 28, the Shanghai Incident." The mur
derous events were "all sloganized" so the children could memorize
 them by heart. "If you were Chinese-American, you certainly felt the
 fate of China was important," recounted James Low. "I remember
 the teachers would always complain, 'China is weak, and look at the
 treatment we get here.' "^'^
 Large forces and international developments were under way
 that would have a profound impact on the place of the Chinese,
 especially the second generation, in American society. When Jade
 Snow Wong graduated from Mills College, she found herself wor
rying about future plans for her career. She had assumed she would
 enter graduate studies for a master's degree in social work. "But Pearl
 Harbor had been bombed," she wrote in her autobiography, "and
 the students, like everyone else, were caught in the war fever. 